Aalesund  University  College ( Norwegian: Høgskolen i Ålesund) is a medium-sized institution of higher education in  Norway with 2249 students and 224 employees.

AAUC was founded in 1994 as a result of the reorganisation of professional higher education in  Norway.  Three former colleges in Ålesund, the  College of  Marine  Studies, the  College of  Engineering and  Aalesund  College of  Nursing were then merged into one institution.

The college is divided into five faculties:

AAUC will be merged with NTNU, Sør- Trøndelag  University  College and  Gjøvik  University  College under the NTNU name in  January 2016. University-level education in Örebro started in the 1960s, when  Uppsala  University started to offer some courses in Örebro.  On the basis of these activities, an independent högskola (university college) was created in 1977 under the name Högskolan i Örebro (Örebro  University  College).  This university college also incorporated three other existing educational institutions in Örebro: the teaching seminar, the sports college (founded in 1966) and the social work college (founded 1967). Örebro  University  College was granted the privileges of a university by the  Government of  Sweden in 1999, becoming the 12th university in  Sweden.

On 30  March 2010 the university was granted the right to award medical degrees in collaboration with Örebro  University  Hospital, making it the 7th medical school in  Sweden. Örebro  University co-hosts the  Centre of  Gender  Excellence established by the  Swedish  Research  Council.

In 1967,  Uppsala  University established a branch in Örebro, the  College of  Social  Sciences.  In 1977, Örebro  University  College was established through a merger of the  Uppsala  University branch in Örebro, the  Preschool  Teaching  Seminary, and the  College of  Physical  Education and  Sport  Science.  In 1999, the university college was granted the status of a university by the  Government of  Sweden and opened by  Prime  Minister Göran  Persson on 6  February 1999.Østfold  University  College ( Norwegian: Høgskolen i Østfold,  HiØ) is a further and higher education institution in south-eastern  Norway.  It has campuses in  Fredrikstad and  Halden.  Enrollment is approximately 4,000 students as of 2010 ; and 480 staff.  The school is one of 24 public university colleges in  Norway, and is a result of five public colleges in  Halden,  Sarpsborg and  Fredrikstad which were joined together as a part of the  University  College  Reform ( Norwegian: Høgskolereformen) of 1994.

The school offers over 60 fields of study, ranging from  Associate degrees,  Bachelor's degrees,  Master's degrees, and some  Doctorates.

HiØ is split between two campuses, one located in  Halden, for business, social sciences, foreign language, computer science and education.  The other in  Fredrikstad, for engineering, health and social studies, and theatre.

The  Halden campus, designed by architect firm  Reiulf  Ramstad  Arkitekter, was opened in 2006.  The building was nominated by the  Norwegian  Association of  Architects for the  Mies van der  Rohe-prize.

The  Fredrikstad campus is home to approximately 1,600 students and 150 staff.  Its newest addition, called " Smia" ("the forge"), was opened for the school's  Faculty of  Engineering in 2010.

Østfold  University  College was ranked 5th in  Norway, and 900th in the  World in the 2010  Webometrics  Ranking of  World  Universities,.  The  European  Commission awarded the  Diploma  Supplement  Label from 2009 to 2013 to Østfold  University  College (Høgskolen i Østfold).  Of the 26  Norwegian higher education institutions that applied, Østfold  University  College was one of five that received this distinction of quality.

Norwegian  Theatre  Academy offers a challenging undergraduate education in theatre and welcomes aspiring performing artists and scenographers who wish to explore the interaction between visual art and theatre, between theatre and society, and between theory and practice.  Through a strategy that emphasizes collaboration between the two degree programs - scenography and acting - students are provided with training that combines the skills, knowledge and methods from conceptual visual art with the skills, techniques and methods of classical and contemporary theatre.  Particular focus is placed on physical theatre, devised performance, and multi-disciplinary work.

The  Faculty of  Engineering offers a 3-year  Bachelor's  Degree in  Industrial  Design, that combines the science of engineering with the applied art of design to educate industrial design engineers.  Students in this program go on to work as product, interface and transportation designers.  The combined degree allows students to identify themselves as both engineers and designers.

NTNU in  Trondheim offers a similar 5-year  Master's  Degree that students can transfer to after graduation and get a 2-year  Master's  Degree in  Industrial  Design  Engineering.  Students will then be able to use the title sivilingeniør, " Master of  Engineering".Aalborg  University is a  Danish university located mainly in  Aalborg,  Denmark with campuses in  Aalborg,  Esbjerg and  Copenhagen.  Aalborg  University (AAU) was established in 1974 under  Aalborg  University  Center (AUC), but changed its name to  Aalborg  University in 1994.  Today,  Aalborg  University is the fifth largest university in  Denmark based on the number of enrolled students.  In  Aalborg, the university is mainly located on the main campus in the eastern part of the city, but the university also has departments located in downtown  Aalborg.  Currently,  Aalborg  University has approximately 21,606 students and 3,479 employees.  In 2011,  Aalborg  University experienced the largest increase in applicants in  Denmark, as the number of new students increased by 31 per cent.

Aalborg  University (AAU) was founded in 1974 under the name of  Aalborg  University  Center (AUC) as a result of a series of mergers between a number of institutions, which made it possible to create a single university with several faculties.  At its establishment in 1974, AUC had a  Faculty of  Humanities, a  Faculty of  Social  Science and a  Faculty of  Technical- Natural  Science .  In 1994, AUC changed name to  Aalborg  University (AAU).  Although AAU is a young university in  Denmark with its 40 years of history, the university has some even greater roots such as the  Master of  Science programme in  Surveying and  Mapping  Programme, which is the oldest education at  Aalborg  University, originally created in 1768.  The  Surveying and  Mapping programme still exists at  Aalborg  University and is offered both in  Aalborg and at the university's department in  Copenhagen.  Aalborg  University's roots can be traced back to e.g. a number of older institutions, which now are part of the university such as  The  Business  School  Department in  Aalborg founded in 1920,  National  Building  Research  Institute established in 1947,  Esbjerg  Engineering  College established in 1955,  The  School of  Social  Work in  Aalborg founded in 1966,  The  National  Engineering  Academy established in 1967 and  Copenhagen  Business  School  Aalborg  Department established in 1969.  Since its establishment in 1974, AAU has been characterised by a problem-based and project-oriented teaching method.  In 1995, AAU opened a department in  Esbjerg by merging with  Esbjerg  Engineering  College; in 1996, the  School of  Architecture &  Design was created; in 2003,  Aalborg  University opened a department in  Copenhagen; and in 2010, the  School of  Medicine was created.

Aalborg  University differentiates itself from the older and more traditional  Danish universities with its focus on interdisciplinary, inter-faculty studies; an experimental curriculum based on an interdisciplinary basic course with subsequent specialisation; a pedagogical structure based on problem-centred, real-life projects of educational and research relevance – which internationally has become known and recognised as  The  Aalborg  Model.  With the problem-based, project-organised model, semesters at AAU are centred around complex real-life problems which students attempt to find answers to in a scientific manner while working together in groups.  In  February 2007, the foundation of the UICEE  Centre for  Problem  Based  Learning (UCPBL) paid recognition to  Aalborg  University, which subsequently led to the appointment of AAU as UNESCO  Chair in problem-based learning.

The university is governed by a board consisting of 11 members: 6 members recruited outside the university form the majority of the board, 2 members are appointed by the scientific staff, 1 member is appointed by the administrative staff, and 2 members are appointed by the university students.  The rector is appointed by the university board.  The rector in turn appoints deans and deans appoint heads of departments.  There is no faculty senate and faculty is not involved in the appointment of rector, deans, or department heads.  Hence the university has no faculty governance.

Aalborg  University has five faculties with a number of departments, schools, centres and study boards.  Since 1  January 2007, AAU has been divided into the following faculties;

Aalborg  University  Library is a public research library for the  North  Jutland region.  The library's primary mission is to support research and education at  Aalborg  University by providing appropriate information and documentation.  The  University  Library is geographically located at  Langagervej 2 in  Aalborg, which is linked to smaller branches located on other campuses in  Aalborg,  Esbjerg and  Copenhagen.

AAU conducts research within all faculties.  Aalborg  University is among the leading universities in the world within health technology research, wireless communication, energy, computer science, innovation economics and comparative welfare studies. AAU has established centres for telecommunication at  Birla  Institute of  Technology in  India, at  Bandung  Institute of  Technology in  Indonesia, and at the  University of  Rome.  Furthermore, AAU has established a research centre for health technology at  Xi'an  Jiaotong  University in  China.

AAU has conducted several experiments in the field of  Cube Sat technology.  The first AAU  Cube Sat was launched on 30  June 2003, the second (called AAUSAT-II) on 28  April 2008 and the third will be launched in Q1, 2013.  After launching AAUSAT3 the fourth will begin development.

AAU has always adopted a cross-disciplinary, problem-based approach to research which often requires contributions from a number of scientific disciplines.  Aalborg  University has five cross-disciplinary action areas:

Although  Aalborg  University has had strong regional ties since its establishment in 1974, internationalisation is a cornerstone in AAU's strategy and development.  Thereby, AAU is a local university with an international outlook. AAU focuses on international collaboration within research and has, among other things, established a department for wireless communication and satellite navigation at  University of  Rome  Tor  Vergata, and the  University of  Calcutta in  India and two centres for telecommunications, one at  Birla  Institute of  Technology in  India and one at  Bandung  Institute of  Technology in  Indonesia.

25% of the  University's researchers are non- Danish and 10 per cent of the student body of  Aalborg  University is made up of international students.Aarhus  University ( Danish:  Aarhus  Universitet, abbreviated AU) is a prestigious public university located in  Aarhus,  Denmark.  Founded in 1928, it is  Denmark's second oldest university[nb 1] and the largest, with a total of 44,500 enrolled students as of 1  January 2013, after a merger with  Aarhus  School of  Engineering.  In most prestigious ranking lists of the world's best universities,  Aarhus  University is placed in the top 100.  The university belongs to the  Coimbra  Group of  European universities.  The business school within  Aarhus  University, called  Aarhus BSS, holds the EFMD ( European  Foundation for  Management  Development)  Equis accreditation, the  Association to  Advance  Collegiate  Schools of  Business (AACSB) and the  Association of MB As (AMBA).  This makes the business school of  Aarhus  University one of the few in the world to have the so-called  Triple  Crown accreditations.

Denmark's first professor of sociology was a member of the faculty of  Aarhus  University ( Theodor  Geiger, from 1938–1952), and in 1997  Professor  Jens  Christian  Skou received the  Nobel  Prize in  Chemistry for his discovery of the sodium-potassium pump.  In 2010,  Dale T.  Mortensen, a  Niels  Bohr  Visiting  Professor at  Aarhus  University, received the  Nobel  Memorial  Prize in  Economic  Sciences together with his colleagues  Peter  Diamond and  Christopher  Pissarides.

Aarhus  University was founded on 11  September 1928 as  Universitetsundervisningen i  Jylland (" University  Studies in  Jutland") with a budget of 33,000  Dkr and an enrollment of 64 students, which rose to 78 during the first semester.  The university was founded as a response to the increasing number of students at the  University of  Copenhagen after  World  War I.  Classrooms were rented from the  Technical  College and the teaching corps consisted of one professor of philosophy and four associate professors of  Danish,  English,  German and  French.  Along with  Universitets- Samvirket (" The  University  Association") which consisted of representatives of  Aarhus' businesses, organisations and institutions, the municipality of  Aarhus had fought since 1921 to have  Denmark's next university located in the city.

In 1929, the municipality of  Aarhus gave the university land with a landscape of rolling hills.  The design of the university buildings and 12 ha campus area was assigned to architects C. F. Møller,  Kay  Fisker and  Povl  Stegmann, who won the architectural competition in 1931.  The first buildings housed the  Departments of  Chemistry,  Physics and  Anatomy and were opened on 11  September 1933, the same year the name  Aarhus  University was first used.  The construction of the buildings was funded solely by donations which totaled 935,000  Dkr and the buildings covered an area of 4,190m2.  One of the most generous contributors was  De  Forenede  Teglværker i  Aarhus (" The  United  Tileworks of  Aarhus") led by director K.  Nymark.  Forenede  Teglværker decided to donate 1 million yellow bricks and tiles worth c. 50,000  Dkr and later decided to extend the donation to all bricks needed to construct the building.

The inauguration was celebrated in a tent on campus and attended by  King  Christian X,  Queen  Alexandrine, their son  Crown  Prince  Frederick and  Prime  Minister  Stauning together with 1000 other invited guests.  On 23  April 1934,  Aarhus  University was given permission to hold examinations by the king and on 10  October 1935,  Professor  Dr. phil.  Ernst  Frandsen was appointed the first rector of the university.  Since 1939, C. F. Møller  Architects has been responsible for building activities of the university which today has a floor area of 246,000m2 in the  University  Park alone and a series of buildings outside the  Park with a total floor area of 59,000m2.

From 1928,  Aarhus  University offered courses in languages and philosophy, but the students were unable to finish their studies without going to the  University of  Copenhagen for their final examinations.  By request of the  Ministry of  Education, the  Teachers'  Association made a draft of how to conduct the final examinations in the humanistic subjects in  Aarhus and in the draft, the  Association proposed that the faculty was named the  Faculty of  Humanities by analogy with the corresponding faculties in  Uppsala,  Lund and  Turku.  After negotiations between the faculties in  Aarhus and  Copenhagen, the  King declared on 8  May 1935 that the final university examinations could be held at the  Faculty of  Philosophy in  Copenhagen as well as at the  Faculty of  Humanities in  Aarhus.  This was the first final examinations  Aarhus  University was allowed to hold, but on 24  July 1936 the king granted the  Faculty of  Humanities the right to hold examinations for the magister degree and in 1940 for the  Ph D.

Aarhus  University had offered courses in basic medical subjects from 1933 and on 10  October 1935 the  Faculty of  Medicine was formally established.  The establishment of a  Faculty of  Medicine in  Aarhus was met with some opposition from the  Faculty of  Medicine at the  University of  Copenhagen.  The professors thought that the state should not establish a new  Faculty until the shortcomings of the old one had been solved.  In the end, the professors agreed to sign a recommendation for the new  Faculty as long as improvements to the old one were not delayed.  By 1953, the  Faculty of  Medicine had been fully built, complete with lectures, professorship chairs, final exams, research facilities and the hospitals of  Aarhus had been expanded to meet the demands of clinical training.  In 1992, the  Faculty of  Medicine merged with the dental school and changed its name to  Faculty of  Health  Sciences.

The university established its  Faculty of  Economics and  Law in 1936, but when it offered courses in political science and in psychology (1959 and 1968, respectively), the faculty changed its name to the  Faculty of  Social  Sciences.  The faculty had to be funded solely on private donations and once the university demonstrated it had the needed financial means, the  Minister of  Education recommended the  Finance  Committee to approve the establishment of the faculty on 27  January 1936 since the state did not have to grant financial support.  The  Committee approved and by declaration of the king on 5  November 1937, the faculty could hold examinations in economics and law.

Courses had been offered in theology since 1932 at the  Faculty of  Humanities, but in 1942 the  Faculty of  Theology was formally established.  Already on 22  June 1928,  Reverend  Balslev of  Aarhus had proposed that  Universitetsundervisningen i  Aarhus (not yet university) taught basic courses in theology.  Though the proposal was greeted by the management, the  Faculty of  Theology in  Copenhagen pointed out that it would take 3 full-time teachers of the  New  Testament,  Old  Testament and ecclesiastical history, respectively as well as education in  Latin,  Greek and  Hebrew by the  Faculty of  Humanities.  At this time,  Universitetsundervisningen i  Aarhus did not have the financial means to meet these criteria so the case was shelved for the time being.  In  April 1931, the case reopened, this time by  Bishop  Skat  Hoffmeyer who proposed free teaching in the required subjects.  The management asked the faculty in  Copenhagen if this was acceptable, but because the teaching was free, the faculty saw it as tutoring rather than actual teaching and they neither approved or disproved of such an approach though they did not see it as actual university teaching.  The municipality of  Aarhus did not aid with funds and the management deemed a request of the state to be futile so they decided to disregard getting the teaching approved and start it anyway under the supervision of  Skat  Hoffmeyer.  On 5  September 1932  Reverend  Asmund held the first lecture in theology.  This private education in theology continued until the university could hire its own professors in 1938, and in 1942  Aarhus  University could at long last establish the  Faculty of  Theology.

In 1938, the university management acknowledged it was time to consider an expansion because of lack of space and the overcrowding of the auditoriums.  The solution was not an administration building, as this was not to be built until 1964.  Instead a new main building was planned, containing both the different subject areas as well as the administration.  The building was to be organized according to a principle of institutes so that teaching and research took place in certain rooms with their own library and study for the professor.

The construction of the building took place during the  German occupation of  Denmark (1940–45) during  World  War II, which affected the process in more than one way.  No state funds had been involved in the construction of the first university building and a second building for physiology, biochemistry, and a high voltage laboratory, but because the  Nazis were against civil use of material and working force, the state contributed to the building.  In 1943, the  Gestapo,  Sicherheitsdienst,  Geheime  Feldpolizei and  Abwehr set up their regional headquarters in the five student halls of residence on campus.  Fearing that the same would happen to the new main building, its completion was delayed. C. F. Møller later wrote that for once there was plenty of time to work on the details of the building, like patterned brickwork, acoustic screens and furniture.

The presence of the  Gestapo in  Aarhus led to multiple arrests of  Danish resistance fighters and the resistance movement soon realized they needed outside assistance.  On 15  October, the leader of the illegal  Danish underground army in  Jutland,  Niels  Bennike, sent the following telegram to  London:

On 31  October 1944, the  Royal  Air  Force bombed the  Gestapo's headquarters in residence halls 4 and 5, also killing ten civilian workers. 2  Group  Bomber  Command carried out the bombing by using 25  Mosquito planes.  The air strike on the  University of  Aarhus took place in a heavily populated area and the campus was surrounded by three hospitals.  To avoid civilian casualties, the RAF prepared with a model of the campus, shooting at residence halls 4 and 5 with chalk bags.  The architect C. F. Møller was in the main building during the air strike but survived and was later dug free from the rubble.  The reconstructed main building opened on 11  September 1946.

Aarhus  University was an independent institution until 1970, but with management representatives from the city council and the organization of  Universitets- Samvirket.  Hereafter, the university became a state-run institution under the first  University  Act.  With the next  University  Act in 1992, external organizations were once again represented in the administration and under the 2003  Act, all  Danish universities are governed by a nationwide university board.  This board appoints the rector, deans and heads of departments instead of the students.  It commenced in  January 2004 for the first time and in  August 2005, it appointed a new rector.

In 1994, the university was a scene of a shooting; 3 people (including the perpetrator) were killed and two more were injured.

Aarhus  University has hosted notable musical events.  The  Grateful  Dead played here on  April 16, 1972.  The performance was recorded as part of their  Europe '72 tour.

In recent years, several higher education institutions have been merged with  Aarhus  University.  Following the  Danish  University reform of 2006, it merged with the HIH[clarification needed] in  Herning and the DPU[clarification needed] in  Copenhagen, making the university nationwide and adding 6,000 students.  In 2012,  Aarhus  University's  School of  Engineering was merged with the university proper, making it  Denmarks' largest.[clarification needed]

The campus master plan competition was won in 1931 by the collaborative scheme of  Danish architects  Kay  Fisker, C. F. Møller and  Povl  Stegmann in collaboration with landscape architect  Carl  Theodor Sørensen.  The design includes a wide variety of buildings over a large space, but each building is composed of the same yellow brick and roofing tile, giving the whole campus a unified look.  Construction commenced in 1932 and has continued into the 21st century.  The original main building was one of the first  Danish functionalist public buildings and has been included in the  Ministry of  Culture's canon of  Danish architecture; it is acknowledged as one of the twelve most significant architectural works in the cultural history of  Denmark. C. F. Møller and his company, C. F. Møller  Architects have continued as architects of the campus ever since.  The main buildings of the university are placed in and around the  University  Park ( Danish:  Universitetsparken).  The park and campus has been expanded throughout the years, in 1957 the old park of  Vennelystparken, just south of the  University park was included.  In a harmonic interplay with the park, the yellow buildings form a campus that has received international recognition for its aesthetic values and it has been protected by law since 1993, in order to conserve its unique design.

Apart from the main campus,  Aarhus  University has several smaller campuses and departments throughout  Aarhus.  This includes the campus of  Aarhus BSS, school of business and social sciences in  Aarhus V, the new adjacent campus of  Nobelparken, built in 1997-2004 in red brick, also by C. F. Møller  Architects, but in a different design, a campus at  Trøjborg for  Nordic linguistics and related studies, and parts of the research park of IT-byen at  Katrinebjerg, where the computer science institute also teach and do research.  Archaeology and anthropology takes residence in  Moesgård  Manor, an old manor house at the new  Moesgård  Museum.

Aarhus  University also has a small campus in  Emdrup in  Copenhagen (approx. 6.000 students), where the university's programmes in education and pedagogy are taught and researched.  It is due for expansion by 2020, and the small  Environmental  Science  Unit at  Frederiksborgvej 399,  Roskilde is due to move there.  In the city of  Herning, there is also a small campus where a few of the university's business, engineering and technology programmes are taught, called the  Department of  Business  Development and  Technology.

The university is governed by the  University  Board which has 11 members: six members recruited outside the university form the majority of the board, two members are appointed by the academic staff, one member is appointed by the technical/administrative staff, and two members are appointed by the university students.  The rector is appointed by the university board.  The rector in turn appoints deans and deans appoint heads of departments.  There is no faculty senate and faculty is not involved in the appointment of rector, deans, or department heads.  Hence the university has no faculty governance.

Since 1  January 2011, the university has been organised into four major main academic areas:

As of 1  October 2014, more than 42,000 students were enrolled in  Aarhus  University.  Each year more than 1000 international exchange students come to  Aarhus  University to study for one or two terms.  In 2009 close to 3000 international students were enrolled in full degree programmes.  Aarhus  University is an international university with a large proportion of students at the post-baccalaureate level: over half of its students are enrolled in master's degree and  Ph D programmes.  In 2011, 59 of the university's 113  Master's degree programmes were taught in  English.  Talent development of young researchers has been identified as one of the university’s core activities.  This means that highly qualified students have the option of starting their  Ph D studies before completing their master's degree.  The university's doctoral programmes allow talented students to enroll in a combined  Master's/ Ph D programme either right after completing the bachelor's degree (the 3+5 track) or one year into their master's degree programme (the 4+4 track).  Since 2006 the number of  Ph D students has risen from approximately 1000 to approximately 1700 in 2010.

The  International  Centre maintains international partnerships and combines a wide range of services for exchange students, international full-degree students,  Ph D’s and visiting scholars.  The  International  Centre is often the first stop for foreign students at  Aarhus  University, since the centre offers advice on finding housing and living in  Denmark.

Starting in 2011 all summer courses and summer schools offered by  Aarhus  University for  Bachelor's,  Master's and  Ph D students will be gathered together and expanded to provide more diversity in a new framework: AU  Summer  University.  In the summer of 2011 more than 80 courses were offered within the fields of humanities, theology, social sciences, health sciences, natural sciences, agricultural sciences, business and educational sciences.  Summer courses are open to both  Danish and international students.

Aarhus  University has seen some deep administrational changes since the turn of the century and now also includes several large sub-departments such as  Aarhus BSS,  Business  Academy  Aarhus (BAAA), AU  Engineering and others.  Each of these sub-departments offers undergraduate and/or graduate programmes specific to their own field of study.  The core academic degree programmes of  Aarhus  University includes the following fields:

The university offers eight undergraduate and about 60 graduate programmes in  English-language.

Aarhus  University is the owner of the chemical manufacturer  Cheminova, who controversially has been selling the methyl parathion pesticide to  Brazil farmers.

In 2009, senior researcher  Mette  Jensen emailed her colleagues at AU, asking whether they thought  Cheminova should stop selling the controversial pesticides.  For this, the university threatened her with dismissal.

The university's  Pro- Vice- Chancellor Søren E.  Frandsen denies that the university had made any mistakes or threatened the freedom of speech and academic freedom of its staff.

Aarhus  University is home to 15  Centres of  Excellence supported by the  Danish  National  Research  Foundation and a considerable number of major research centres.  The 15  Centres of  Excellence are:

Some of the university's other major research centres include  Mind Lab and i NANO.

MINDLAB was established with a DKK 120 million grant awarded by the  Danish  Ministry of  Science,  Technology and  Innovation.  At MIND Lab neuroscientists, psychologists, biologists, statisticians and researchers from other fields work together to understand the brain, its disorders, and its development through physical and social interactions – and vice versa.

The  Interdisciplinary  Nanoscience  Center (founded in 2002 by  Professor  Flemming  Besenbacher) offers a degree programme in nanoscience with an interdisciplinary curriculum covering a broad spectrum of introductory, advanced and specialised courses, aimed at providing the student with a sufficiently broad basis to conduct interdisciplinary research within nanoscience and at the same time achieve disciplinary depth and specialised skills in selected areas.  Hence, the programme encompasses physics, chemistry, biology, molecular biology, mathematics and computer science.

Students from different fields meet in the numerous  Friday bars, in the  Student  House  Aarhus and at concerts in the  University  Park and around the rest of the city.  The  Friday bars are often organised by the different departments who set up a small bar in a canteen or classroom where beers and non-alcoholic drinks are served.

The university also has a number of libraries, some of which are open around the clock.  Almost every department has its own library, but the main library is the  State and  University  Library.  It has an extensive electronic journal database which students and staff can access either at the library or from home.

Aarhus  University  Sports (AUS) is open to all university students and organises a wide range of activities from badminton, to fencing and chess.

The largest student organisations at  Aarhus  University are the  Student  Union ( Studenterrådet) and  Studenterlauget.  The  Student  Union represents the main student body at  Aarhus  University while  Studenterlauget is a mainly social organisation at  School of  Business and  Social  Sciences.  The  Student  Union has both student seats on the university board.  The  Student  Union also arranges annual concerts and seminars, and publishes the student magazine  Delfinen ( The  Dolphin).

There are political students organisations at the university, the largest of which include the  Social- Democratic  Students ( Frit  Forum),  Conservative  Students ( Konservative  Studenter), and  Liberal  Students ( Liberale  Studerende).  The  Conservative  Students union publishes the student magazine  Critique.  The  Liberal  Students union publishes the leaflet  Minerva.

Aarhus  University offers many activities and services for foreign and  Danish students.  Several " Friday  Bars", clubs organized and crewed by students at the university offer cheap beer and drinks, which has a wide appeal to the student body.

Aarhus  University offers a free membership in  Aarhus  Student  House to all exchange students.  This is the meeting place for international and  Danish students in  Aarhus.  Aarhus  Student  House organizes social and cultural activities throughout the year, ranging from parties to road trips, to language classes, to weekly international nights (a popular dinner club).

AUS is the official sports club of  Aarhus  University, and is open to all university students.  It is an umbrella organisation consisting of 14 independent member clubs, which host a wide range of activities, from badminton to fencing to chess.  In addition, AUS also offers independent activities such as indoor soccer tournaments, gym facilities and skiing trips.

Dale's  Café is a meeting place for international students and the university’s  Ph D students that opened in 2011.  The café offers coffee, sandwiches and a wide selection of beers.  It has an informal lounge area where students and young researchers can relax while enjoying snacks and beverages.  Like the main building,  Dale’s  Café is named after  Aarhus  University’s 2010  Nobel  Laureate in  Economic  Sciences,  Dale T.  Mortensen.  The  Dale T.  Mortensen  Building houses the  International  Centre, the  Ph D  House and the IC  Dormitory, which contains 28 dorm rooms and two apartments dedicated to recently arrived international  Ph D students.

Klubben (which means ' The  Club' in  Danish) is a bar located at the former ASB ( Aarhus  School of  Business), now under the faculty of  School of  Business and  Social  Sciences.  The bar is open during regular school hours and weekdays, but hosts larger parties during  Fridays and in relation to major sports events.  Admittance is usually restricted to students of the  School of  Business and  Social  Sciences.

Studenterlauget,  School of  Business and  Social  Sciences (at the former ASB) is currently the largest student organisation in  Denmark –  Studenterlauget.  The organisation has approximately 4,000 members whom they service through nine smaller "business units".  Studenterlauget has around 130 employees, most of them students.

The 2016  Shanghai  Ranking ranks  Aarhus  University as the 65th best university in the world.  In addition, including  Times  Higher  Education  World  University  Rankings and QS  World  University  Rankings,  Aarhus  University is ranked as one of the top schools in  Denmark and the world.  Aarhus  University has been evaluated as “excellent” in the field of  Biology,  Physics,  Mathematics and  Political  Science.  The 2015  National  Taiwan  University  Ranking ranks it as the 88th best in the world.

The residence halls in the  University  Park are located on campus; the other residence halls are spread all over the city.The  Bauhaus  Universität is a university located in  Weimar,  Germany and specializes in the artistic and technical fields.  Established in 1860 as the  Great  Ducal  Saxon  Art  School, it gained collegiate status on 3  June 1910.  In 1919 the school was renamed  Bauhaus by its new director  Walter  Gropius and it received its present name in 1996.  Approximately 4,000 students are enrolled at the university today.  In 2010 the  Bauhaus- Universität commemorated its 150th anniversary as an art school and college in  Weimar.

Weimar boasts a long tradition of art education and instruction in the areas of fine art, handicrafts, music and architecture.  In 1776 the  Weimar  Princely  Free  Zeichenschule was established, but gradually lost significance after the  Grand  Ducal  Saxon  Art  School was founded in 1860.  The  Free  Zeichenschule was discontinued in 1930.  In 1829 the architect  Clemens  Wenzeslaus  Coudray established the  Free  School of  Trades (which later became the  Grand  Ducal  Saxon  Architectural  Trade  School, or  State  School of  Architecture), which operated in the evenings and  Sundays and supplemented the courses at the  Free  Zeichenschule.  In 1926, the school was incorporated into the  Gotha  School of  Architecture.

The  Orchestra  School, which opened in 1872, eventually became the  College of  Music  Franz  Liszt in  Weimar.

The history of the  Bauhaus- Universität goes back to 1860 when  Grand  Duke  Carl  Alexander ( Saxe- Weimar- Eisenach) founded the  Grand  Ducal  Saxon  Art  School.  Although it became a public institution in 1902, its ties with the ducal house remained strong for years.  Students were instructed in a variety of artistic subjects, including landscape, historical, portrait and animal painting, and sculpting.  In 1905 the  Art  School merged with the  Weimar  Sculpture  School, which, although integrated into the educational system in a “cooperative relationship between high and applied art”, was independently managed.  The school was raised to college status in 1910 and was renamed the  Grand  Ducal  Saxon  College of  Fine  Arts.  The development of the  Bauhaus- Universität  Weimar was also strongly influenced by the  Grand  Ducal  Saxon  School of  Arts and  Crafts which trained artisans in the handicrafts between 1907 and 1915.  Both schools issued certificates of participation and conferred diplomas.

The names of renowned artists, instructors and students can be found in the historical documents and records of both schools.

In 1919  Walter  Gropius merged the  College of  Fine  Arts and the  School of  Arts and  Crafts into the  Staatliches  Bauhaus in  Weimar.  It was the making of a new type of art school, a pioneer of modernity, the legacy of which continues to influence the  Bauhaus- University  Weimar today.  In 1923  Gropius summarized his vision with the radical formula “ Art and  Technology – A  New  Unity.”  His “concept of collaboration with the industry” was strongly opposed, not least of all because he was “determined from the very start to beat down any resistance toward this new kind of architecturally related art.”

The increasing equalization of professors and workshop instructors and unbridgeable differences made it impossible “for art to develop freely, without purpose and with no connection to architecture at the  Bauhaus.”  As a result, the  State  College of  Fine  Arts was founded in 1921, an institution at which academically traditional masters could work and teach, such as  Richard  Engelmann,  Max  Thedy,  Walther  Klemm,  Alexander  Olbricht and  Hugo  Gugg ( Hedwig  Holtz- Sommer’s instructor).  The  Bauhaus only remained in  Weimar until spring 1925 when it was forced to relocate to  Dessau for political reasons.  There the  Bauhaus began a new, important chapter as a college of art and design.

The well-known artists and instructors of this period include  Karl  Peter Röhl and  Ludwig  Hilberseimer.  Some of it famous students include  Ernst  Neufert und  Ludwig  Hirschfeld  Mack.

The  State  College of  Trades and  Architecture, or  College of  Architecture for short, succeeded the  Bauhaus in 1926, which, since the  State  School of  Architecture had moved to  Gotha, offered its own regular postgraduate courses in  Architecture in the form both  Van de  Velde and  Gropius had long envisioned.  Although the  College of  Architecture continued to adhere to the idea of the  Bauhaus, it offered a much more practical orientation.  This corresponded to the “concept of a construction-based, productive working community,” which represented one of the founding principles of this successor institution.  The experimental and innovative focus of the  Bauhaus fell somewhat to the wayside.  In 1929 there were 88 students enrolled at the  College of  Architecture.  After completing their education, graduates received a diploma in the  Construction department and the title “ Journeyman” or “ Master” in their area of handicraft.

Paul  Schultze- Naumburg rejected all phenomena of industrial, urban society.  He strived to establish a new architectural style that exuded “ Gemütlichkeit”, or coziness.  In his opinion, it was necessary to preserve the  German styles typical of the region, so that people could find identification and orientation in times of rapid social and cultural upheaval.  Graduates of the  Architecture course received the title “ Diplom- Architekt” (certified architect), while artists received a simple certificate and craftspeople received the title “ Journeyman” or “ Master”.

The well-known artists and instructors of this period include:  Hermann  Giesler,  Hans  Seytter (e.g.,  Stiftskirche,  Stuttgart),  Walther  Klemm,  Alexander  Olbricht (de) and  Hugo  Gugg (de).

The institution officially attained college-level status in 1942.  By this time, the  School of  Trades had been removed from the college, which now called itself the  College of  Architecture and  Fine  Arts.  After  World  War II, the  Soviet  Military  Administration of  Thuringia oversaw the restructuring of the college to reflect antifascist-democratic principles.  Under the aegis of the architect  Hermann  Henselmann, appointed director in 1946, the college focused its efforts to rebuild the country and pick up where the  Bauhaus left off.  Some even suggested changing the name of the college to “ The  Bauhaus –  College of  Architecture and  Handicraft and  Engineering  Design.”

After the GDR was established and the  East  German university system was restructured, the college itself underwent major changes in 1951.  The “ Fine  Arts” department, which had previously been chaired by the sculptor  Siegfried  Tschierschky, was dissolved.  The new  College of  Architecture was placed under the control of the “ Ministry of  Reconstruction” with the objective to develop academic and research programs for a new technical college of civil engineering.

In 1954 the college received a rectorial constitution with two new faculties: “ Civil  Engineering” and “ Building  Materials  Science and  Technology”.  Otto  Englberger, an architect, professor of “ Residential and  Community  Building,” and provisional director of the college since 1951, was appointed the first vice-chancellor of the new  College of  Architecture and  Civil  Engineering  Weimar (HAB).  In the following decades, the college became one of the leading academic institutions in the field of civil engineering, respected throughout  East and  West  Germany alike.

Because the college was so integrated in the political system of the GDR, the direction of its instruction and research activities was largely dictated by the government for the purpose of carrying out the latest civil engineering tasks.  The third higher education reform of 1968/69 modernized and reorganized the structure of the college based on business administration principles.  The faculties were replaced by “sections”, and the college was expanded to include the section of “ Computer  Technology and  Data  Processing.”  In 1976 research and reception of the  Bauhaus was revived at the HAB  Weimar.  It represented the first step of an ongoing positive re-evaluation of the legacy of the college.  Thanks to these research efforts, the college established relations with other institutions, including several in  West  Germany.

Ever since 1951, students in all disciplines were required by  East  German law to pass a basic study program in  Marxist- Leninist philosophy.  Later, academic staff, lecturers and professors were also required to complete training on a regular basis.  The  Institute for  Marxism- Leninism, which offered these courses at the HAB, was closed in 1990.

The well-known artists and instructors of this period include:  Walther  Klemm and  Anita  Bach (* 1927, first female professor of  Architecture in the GDR).

The political upheaval of 1989 initiated a radical process of restructuring at the college.  The goal was to quickly adapt the college to the basic principles of freedom and democracy and integrate it into the international community of higher education institutions.  Several changes were made to its overall structure; redundant departments were merged or dissolved. A new chapter began in 1993 with the establishment of the “ Faculty of  Art and  Design” which reincorporated the artistic disciplines into the academic profile of the college.  The establishment of the “ Faculty of  Media” in 1996 emphasized the college’s dedication to progressive thinking.  After changing its name to the " Bauhaus- Universität  Weimar" in 1996, the university demonstrated its dedication to the spirit of the  Bauhaus.

The well-known artists and instructors of this period include:  Lucius  Burckhardt,  Werner  Holzwarth and  Wolfgang  Ernst.

In  December 1996 the UNESCO added the “ Bauhaus and its sites in  Weimar and  Dessau” to its list of  World  Heritage  Sites.  The  Bauhaus sites in  Weimar include the main building (formerly the  Grand  Ducal  Saxon  Art  School) and the  Van de  Velde building (formerly the  Grand  Ducal  Saxon  School of  Arts and  Crafts) at the  Bauhaus- Universität.

The university possesses a unique structure with four main faculties.  It has fostered a diverse profile of instruction and research based on engineering and architectural disciplines.  Today the university offers students a selection of approximately 40 degree programs.  The term “ Bauhaus” in its name stands for eagerness to experiment, openness, creativity, proximity to industrial practice and internationality.

Architecture at the  Bauhaus- Universität is regarded as a practical science which, in addition to designing the external form of buildings, also focuses on applying various development strategies in urban and rural environments while taking into account the challenges of modernity (energy, environmental pollution, etc.).  Students also learn about the function, significance and planning of special buildings and facilities (such as hospitals).

Student enrolment at the  Faculty of  Architecture and  Urbanism: 1,178 (winter semester 2013/14)

The faculty has been expanding and developing in the field of civil engineering for almost six decades.  Civil engineers and engineers from related disciplines have left a lasting imprint on the development of cities and rural areas through, among other things, innovative water treatment concepts for developing countries, high-tech building materials for eco-friendly construction, the development of energetic renovation methods and novel bridge constructions.

Student enrolment at the  Faculty of  Civil  Engineering: 1,067 (winter semester 2013/14)

The goal of instruction and research in this faculty is to envision and design human living environments.  The academic programs focus mainly on recognizing and promoting creative and intellectual strengths and searching for ways to put them to practical use.

Student enrolment at the  Faculty of  Art and  Design: 610 (winter semester 2013/14)

The  Faculty of  Art and  Design has been using the studios and classrooms in the former  School of  Arts and  Crafts ( Van de  Velde  Building) since 1996.  Following a renovation phase lasting two years, the  Faculty of  Art and  Design returned to the  Van de  Velde  Building in  April 2010.  In  November 2013, the faculty celebrated its 20th anniversary with the festival week »2 G13«[dead link].

The  Faculty of  Media, still unique in  German university education, now has a 15-year history to look back upon.  By founding the faculty in 1996, the  Bauhaus- Universität  Weimar responded to the ever-growing significance of media for the sciences, society and the economy.  The faculty meets the contemporary challenges of media-aesthetic, media-cultural and media-technological natures with an interdisciplinary approach in the best  Bauhaus tradition—by interweaving art and technology.  The faculty fosters the growth of creative media artists with strong science backgrounds in self-designed project-based courses.  Its graduates are active in the media-, culture, multi-media- and telecommunication industries, as well as in research and instruction.

Student enrolment at the  Faculty of  Media: 1,198 (winter semester 2013/14)

Following  German reunification, a vacated industrial facility in the vicinity of the historic center of  Weimar near the  Frauenplan and  Goethe’s house was chosen as the site of a new library and lecture hall for the  Bauhaus- Universität.

Following an urban planning competition in 1991, the architects’ office meck architekten ( Munich) were commissioned to design the building.  After a four-year construction phase costing 12 million euros, the new university library and an integrated main auditorium were officially opened in 2005, and in 2006, the building was awarded the  Thuringian  State  Prize for  Architecture and  Urban  Planning.

With over 5,000 m2 of usable floor space, the library houses a collection of approximately 488,500 books and other media (as of 2013).

On the initiative of the student government, the  Vice- Chancellor’s office and the  Klassik  Stiftung  Weimar agreed to provide university students with an exhibition venue.  The university gallery marke.6 is located on the ground level of the  Neues  Museums.

Weimar is home to several student faith organizations, such as the  Protestant and  Catholic student communities “ Thomas  Aquinas” and  Studenten für  Christus ( Sf C), a  German chapter of  Chi  Alpha  Campus  Ministries.Bergen  Academy of  Art and  Design ( Norwegian:  Kunst- og designhøgskolen i  Bergen) or K Hi B is one of the two independent institutions of higher learning in the visual arts and design in  Norway.  It is located in  Bergen,  Norway. 

Art education has long traditions in  Bergen, as the first school of art was established there in 1772, modelled on the  Academy of  Art in  Copenhagen.  The present college,  Bergen  Academy of  Art and  Design, is a fairly new institution which in 1996 merged two former institutions;  Vestlandets kunstakademi which had been founded in 1972 and  Statens høgskole for kunsthåndverk og design which is dated to 1909. 

The institution is spread across several buildings at two campuses. A new building is under construction that is designed by the architectural group  Snøhetta after winning an  International competition in 2005.  Planned for 2009, the concept was redrawn to meet budget demands from the  Norwegian  Ministry of  Education and  Research.  It then took until 2013 before the  Norwegian  Government came through with the necessary funding for the project.  The  Academy will take the new building into use after its completion in the autumn of 2017. 

The  Academy has a library on campus located in  Vaskerelven 8.  It offers books and periodicals on the subjects of art and design.  Although primarily for students and staff, the library also welcomes the public.

Bergen  Academy of  Art and  Design is located in five buildings in the center of  Bergen.  The main building and reception area is in  Strømgaten 1, just across from the  Bergen  Railway  Station.  In the vicinity of the main building (around the pedestrian street  Marken) the  Department of  Design is located at  Kong  Oscarsgate 62 and share a building in  Marken 37 with the  Department of  Fine  Art.  The  Department of  Fine  Art also has two more locations in buildings at  Vaskerelven 8 and C.  Sundtsgate 53.

Since a restructuring of the institution’s departments in 2012, the academy have consisted of two departments:  Department of  Fine  Art and  Department of  Design.  In the study year of 2015-16 there are approximately 350 students and around 100 staff members.  In addition a range of continuing and further education courses are available.

Students can take a three-year  Bachelor degree or a two-year  Master degree in the following areas:

The department is divided into two subject areas,  Visual  Communication and  Furniture and  Spatial  Design / Interior  Architecture.

The department has eight specializations: painting and drawing, sculpture and installation, ceramics and clay, time-based art/performance, new media (audio/video), textiles, printmaking, and photography.Bergen  University  College ( Norwegian: Høgskolen i  Bergen or  Hi B) is a  Norwegian public institution of higher education, established in  August 1994 by the merging of six former independent colleges in  Bergen,  Norway.  The total number of students is about 7700, and there are 750 academic and administrative staff.  Its main campus is in the  Kronstad neighborhood of  Bergen.

Bergen  University  College provides professional education within health and social sciences, engineering, economic and administrative science, music and teaching.  It offers education on the  Bachelor and  Master levels, continuing education, and on the  Doctoral level.

In  June, 2016, after about one year of negotiations, the executive leadership of three west  Norwegian higher education institutions –  Bergen  University  College,  Stord/ Haugesund  University  College, and  Sogn og  Fjordane  University  College – officially announced their decision to merge, becoming a large state institution with 14,200 students.  The  English name is expected to be either  Western  Norway  University of  Applied  Sciences or  University  College of  Western  Norway.

The college is organised in three faculties:

Hi B emphasizes professional studies, but also offers postgraduate programs through the doctoral level in some fields, and currently has six research centers  to support its specialized postgraduate programs, providing opportunities for  Ph D research:The  Universität der Künste  Berlin,  Ud K ( Berlin  University of the  Arts), situated in  Berlin,  Germany, is the largest art school in  Europe.  It is a public art and design school, and one of the four research universities in the city.

The university is known for being one of the biggest and most diversified universities of the arts world-wide.  It has four colleges specialising in fine arts, architecture, media and design, music and the performing arts with around 3,500 students.  Thus the  Ud K is one of only three universities in  Germany to unite the faculties of art and music in one institution.  The teaching offered at the four colleges encompasses the full spectrum of the arts and related academic studies in more than 40 courses.  Having the right to confer doctorates and post-doctoral qualifications,  Berlin  University of the  Arts is also one of  Germany’s few art colleges with full university status.

Outstanding professors and students at all its colleges, as well as the steady development of teaching concepts, have publicly defined the university as a high standard of artistic and art-theoretical education.  Almost all the study courses at  Berlin  University of the  Arts are part of a centuries-old tradition.  Thus  Berlin  University of the  Arts gives its students- at an early stage of rigorously selected artists and within the protected sphere of a study course- the opportunity to investigate and experiment with other art forms in order to recognise and extend the boundaries of their own discipline.

Within the field of  Visual  Arts, the university is known for the intense competition that involves the selection of its students, and the growth of applicants worldwide has increased during the years, due to  Berlin's important current role in the cultural innovation worldwide.  In the same way, the  University of the  Arts is publicly recognized for being on the cutting edge in the areas of  Visual  Arts,  Fashion  Design,  Industrial  Design and  Experimental  Design.

Its roots institutions date back to the foundation of  Academie der  Mal-,  Bild- und  Baukunst ( Academy of the  Art of  Painting,  Pictorial  Art and  Architecture), the later  Prussian  Academy of  Arts, at the behest of  Elector  Frederick III of  Brandenburg.  The two predecessor organisations were Königlich  Akademischen  Hochschule für ausübende  Tonkunst ( Royal  Academy of  Musical  Performing  Art) established in 1869 under  Joseph  Joachim, which also had adopted the tradition of the famous  Stern  Conservatory, and the  Berlin  State  School of  Fine  Arts founded in 1875.

In 1975, both art schools merged under the name  Hochschule der Künste  Berlin,  Hd K.  The organization received the title of a university on 1  November 2001.

The exchange program with UDK is a direct enrollment program offered during the fall, spring and academic year to students interested in the arts and with four semesters of  German language study.  Each academic year the school receives 100 exchange students on the basis of institutional agreements.  Students participating in the exchange are required to subsidize their own accommodations with little help from the school.

Annually, the university opens its doors to the public in its four colleges ( Ud K  Rundgang), offering one of the most important art fairs in  Berlin due to new proposals that highlight its young artists.BI  Norwegian  Business  School ( Norwegian:  Handelshøyskolen BI) is the largest business school in  Norway and the second largest in all of  Europe. BI has in total four campuses with the main one located in  Oslo.  The university has 812 employees consisting of an academic staff of 757 people and 428 administrative staff.  In 2015, BI  Norwegian  Business  School had 18,728 students. BI is the largest supplier of economic and administrative competence and skills in  Norway with more than 200 000 graduates since 1983. BI  Norwegian  Business  School is a private foundation and is accredited by NOKUT as a specialised university institution. BI organised its academic activities in nine separate research departments covering all of the disciplines that can be expected at a modern  European business school.

BI  Norwegian  Business  School was founded in 1943 by  Finn Øien as  Bedriftøkonomisk  Institut ( English:  Institute of  Managerial  Economics), hence the abbreviation BI.

As of 2013, the school has 19,649 students made up of 52% women and 55.6% full-time students  Thereby, the  Bachelor of  Science programs have 15,570 students and the  Master of  Science programs have 3,968 students. 1,300 are international students.  There are 831 employees, of whom 419 are faculty and 412 are administrative.

BI offers a full set of programs for bachelor, master, and doctoral degrees, as well as executive education and tailor-made programs for businesses.  The teaching languages are  English (BBA and graduate programs) and  Norwegian (majority of undergraduate programs and custom programs for local businesses).  The school currently participates in exchange programs with 170 foreign institutions in 45 countries.

The internationally award winning main campus in  Nydalen ( Oslo) was designed by  Niels  Torp, who also designed  Gardermoen  Airport.

Norsk  Kundebarometer (NKB) ( English:  Norwegian customer barometer) is a research program run by BI, with a focus on relations between customers and businesses.  Based on an annual survey of  Norwegian households, it collects data that may be used for comparison between businesses, comparisons between various industries, and comparisons over time.

BI has educated roughly 1700 students in  China through its close relationship with  Fudan  University in  Shanghai, and is also the majority shareholder of the ISM  University of  Management and  Economics (previously known as  International  School of  Management) with around 1800 students located in  Vilnius and  Kaunas in  Lithuania.

Undergraduate ( All taught in  Norwegian except  Business  Administration),  Bachelor in:

Graduate ( Only available in  Oslo; all taught in  English except M Sc in  Professional  Accountancy)

The current  Executive  Masters of  Business  Administration (EMBA) course at the  Norwegian business school is fantastic.  The new structure and the combination of the general EMBA courses with other renowned business schools in  Europe,  Asia, and the  United  States gives the program an additional edge.  The new structure exposes participants to insights on business structure in  Europe,  Latin  America,  Asia and  North  America; hence, providing participants with a global business exposure.

The school has two student organizations, one for the main campus in  Oslo and one for the other campuses.  The  Oslo student organization is called " Studentforeningen ved  Handelshøyskolen BI i  Oslo" (SBIO) ( English:  The  Student  Association at BI in  Oslo).  This union was formed in 2005 after the relocation of the three locations in  Oslo into one— Nydalen  Campus.  The three previous unions were called  Bedriftøkonomisk  Studentersamfund (BS), BISON and MØSS. BS was the oldest union, formed in 1964.  The union for the other campuses is "BI  Studentsamfunn" (BIS) ( English: BI  Student  Community).  This union was founded on 7  February 1987 and is today the largest student union of a private school in  Norway.

The student newspaper is named INSIDE, and its circulation is 11,000.

The all-male student choir is named UFDA  The  Choir  Boys and was established in 1986.

BI is accredited as a specialised university institution by the  Norwegian  Agency for  Quality  Assurance in  Education (NOKUT).

BI has also received the following recognitions from private institutions:The  Blekinge  Institute of  Technology ( Swedish:  Blekinge  Tekniska Högskola) (BTH) is a public, state funded  Swedish  Institute of technology in  Blekinge with 6,600 students (part-time, full-time) and offers about 35 educational programmes in 12 departments at two campuses located in  Karlskrona and  Karlshamn.

BTH is one of three independent institutes of technology in  Sweden and in 1999 it was granted university status in technology.  Among a large number of programmes and courses taught in  Swedish, BTH offers about 14  Master's programmes in  English.

The institute focuses on applied information technology and sustainable development; additionally also offers programs in industrial economics, health sciences and spatial planning.

Blekinge  Institute of  Technology is located in the  Telecom  City area and works closely together with many telecommunications and software companies including  Telenor,  Ericsson AB and  Wireless  Independent  Provider (WIP).

The following locations host department s of the  University in  Blekinge:

The  Soft  Center  Campus in  Ronneby existed from 1989 and was integrated in 2010 in the  Campus  Gräsvik,  Karlskrona.

The  University had been between 2006-2008 included in a strategic alliance with Växjö  University and  University of  Kalmar under the common name of the  Academy of the  Southeast.  The  Board, however, decided  February 15, 2008 not to join in the fusion the other two parties, which resulted in the founding of  Linnaeus  University.

Blekinge  Institute of  Technology is a member of the  European  University  Association, the  European  Society of  Engineering  Education and the  Association of  Technical  Universities in  Scandinavia (NORDTEK).

Top  Ranked within  Sustainable  Growth. BTH is selected as the best university in  Sweden within sustainable development 3rd best in  Europe

Top  Ranked in  Systems and  Software  Engineering. BTH is ranked sixth in the world and number one in the EU in systems and software engineering according to the " Journal of  Systems and  Software".  Professor  Claes  Wohlin has been on top-15 list over the most published researchers in the world in the field four times in the last six rankings occasions.

The  Institute offers a wide range of  Bachelor,  Master and  Ph D programmes oriented towards applied  Informatics. BTH has been ranked 6th in the world in  Systems and  Software  Engineering research.  Admission to graduate programs is among the most competitive in  Sweden due to having the highest number of international applicants.  The faculty of the  School of  Computing consists of 11 full professors and 50  Ph D students, among those are high-profile researchers such as

A  European  Master on  Software  Engineering program is given in collaboration with  Technical  University of  Madrid ( Spain),  University of  Kaiserslautern ( Germany) and  Free  University of  Bozen- Bolzano ( Italy).

The  Institute uniquely offers two  Masters programs and a  Ph D program in  Strategic  Sustainable  Development (SSD), a scientifically robust and strategic framework to systematically contribute to sustainable development through trust-building, purposeful practices.  The  Blekinge  Institute of  Technology contributed significantly to the development of  Strategic  Sustainable  Development.  Leading figures of the  Scandinavian sustainability movement, such as  Karl- Henrik  Robèrt, teach and research at the  Institute.  In cooperation with  Lund  University the  Centre for  Innovation,  Research and  Competence in the  Learning  Economy (CIRCLE) was established in 2004.  Today CIRCLE is the largest national research  Centre of  Excellence by the  Swedish  Governmental  Agency for  Innovation  Systems.

The latest (2008) report from the  Engineering  Education for  Sustainable  Development  Observatory (EESD- Observatory) ranked  Blekinge  Institute of  Technology's programme on  Strategic  Sustainable  Development as the best among  Swedish technical universities and third among the 56 evaluated  European universities, with a grade of 8.4 out of 10.

Through a planning grant from the  Swedish  International  Development  Cooperation  Agency (SIDA), BTH and NJU explored the possibilities for cooperation in the field of sustainable development.Bundeswehr  University  Munich ( German:  Universität der  Bundeswehr München,  Uni Bw München) is one of only two federal research universities in  Germany that both were founded in 1973 as part of the  German  Armed  Forces ( Bundeswehr).  Originally called  Hochschule der  Bundeswehr München the institution was supposed to offer civilian academic education for military officers.  Today, the university has an increasing number of civilian and international students.  The academic year at the university is structured in trimesters and not the usual semesters, to offer intensive studies with more credit points per year.  Very capable students can therefore achieve a bachelor's and a master's degree within less than four years, while this would usually require five years.  Universität der  Bundeswehr München has well-established scientific research and forms part of two excellence clusters of the  German government's university excellence initiative.  Bundeswehr  University is one of only very few campus universities in  Germany.

In 1970 the then minister of defence  Helmut  Schmidt decided that the education of military officers in  Germany had to be reviewed and had to include full academic studies.  After one year the  Ellwein commission presented its proposal for the creation of two civilian colleges within the armed forces.  Students should get fully recognised civilian degrees independent of their military profession, to have a higher qualified officer corps and more incentives to join the military.  The idea was that students would have better conditions than at normal universities so that they could cope with a higher workload and study faster.  After almost two years of discussions and the necessary legislative procedures, both universities could open.  University education normally being a responsibility of the  German states,  Universität der  Bundeswehr München and  Helmut  Schmidt  University are the only federal universities in  Germany.  With their innovative concepts  Helmut  Schmidt  University and  Universität der  Bundeswehr München quickly became widely known as reform universities within the very traditional  German university landscape.  In the following years the universities had to establish their image and reputation and finally were accepted as full universities with the rights to award doctorate degrees as well as  Habilitations to qualify university professors in the 80s.  In the 90s and 2000s the university has started to open its teaching towards civilian students and to extend its international relations.  While the researchers and doctorate students always used to be mainly civilians, the student body still had been purely military in the 90s.  Today,  Universität der  Bundeswehr München has concluded partnership contracts with different major financial and industrial companies, which send students to  Universität der  Bundeswehr München.  In the past few years different federal agencies have started to qualify their employees at the university.  Since 2007  Universität der  Bundeswehr München has changed its degree to the harmonized  Bologna system.  It has completely restructed its curriculums and awards bachelor's and master's degrees instead of the former  German  Diplom.

The university is located in  Neubiberg in the south of  Munich,  Bavaria.  There are S- Bahn and U- Bahn connections to  Neuperlach Süd as well as three bus connections available.  In addition to that, there are motorway exits at  Neubiberg and  Neuperlach, permitting fast access by car.  The large campus used to host the  Air  Force officer school before, and also included a military airport.  Former runways are still used for scientific testing of vehicles.  Since the 1970s a large number of buildings has been built for teaching, scientific research and student housing.  Most of the students live in modern individual student dormitories on the campus and next to the university buildings.  There is currently a large renovation process ongoing on the campus: within the next years about € 220m will be spent on building activities.  On campus students have access to different sports facilities like gyms, tennis courts and golf ranges.  Different multinational engineering companies have their headquarters or important industrial facilities directly next to the campus, most notably  Siemens,  Infineon  Technologies,  Bosch and  Siemens  Household  Appliances (BSH), and EADS facilitating frequent cooperation in research.

On campus all students (also the military ones) usually wear civilian clothes.  Students can organize their activities as they want and attendance to lectures is mostly voluntary.  On  Wednesday afternoons there is regularly military or language training for soldiers.  There are many possibilities for extracurricular activities within student initiatives and associations.  International initiatives like the  German- American,  German- Israeli or  German- Hispanic clubs as well as the  Model  United  Nations  Society play an important role on the campus.  The students of each student dormitory usually organize a large party every year.

As a large part of the student body consists of military officers and officer candidates, sport is considered important on the campus.  The sports center provides a variety of free courses for students - e.g. for different martial arts.  There are a lot of sports facilities like gyms, different sports halls, a golf course, a large climbing wall, an indoor swimming pool, several tennis courts and other sports grounds.  Furthermore, the university has a large military obstacle course which was used for the CISM world cup in 2009.  There are different sports teams on the campus which also take part in the university championships.

Every student as well as the public has access to the more than one million volumes in the university library.  The library is linked to the academic library network of  Bavaria which allows interlibrary loans.

The organization of  Universität der  Bundeswehr München is similar to a usual university. 1,100 (non-military) employees, among them 163 full professors, serve the approximately 3,400 students.  The university is led by a civilian president and three vice presidents.  The incumbent president,  Merith  Niehuß, is the only female university president in  Bavaria.  The administration is headed by the  Chancellor. A difference to most other universities is that the structure of education and research is split up between normal university part with seven university faculties and a  Fachhochschule ( College of  Applied  Sciences) part with three more faculties.  Furthermore, the structure contains central services like the computing center, the large university library, a media center with state-of-the-art technology, a language service and the sport services.  In addition to that the university has two further research institutes.  The department for special services includes the  Studium+ institute for interdisciplinary studies, the CASC center for postgraduate studies as well as some further services.  Another difference to other universities is the military division which is responsible for the administration and training of military students.  Decisions are made by the board, the extended board and the administration council ( Senate and  University  Council).  The university has about 850 non-scientific employees in addition to the about 570 scientific employees as well as additional military personnel.

Similar to some other military run universities like the École  Polytechnique the university only offers civilian study courses.  The contents generally have no relation to the military and correspond to courses at regular  German universities.  Bachelor´s and  Master´s studies in total consist of 400 ECTS credit points.  Due to this there also is a small number of highly gifted civilian students who are sponsored by industrial and financial companies like  Allianz,  Bosch or  Munich  Re.  In addition to that other  German ministries and federal institutions like  Bundesnachrichtendienst also educate some of their employees at the university.  In cooperation with  George C.  Marshall  European  Center for  Security  Studies a course of studies for senior leaders ( International  Strategic  Studies) has been introduced.  The university also has international students and offers individual mentoring and tutoring programmes.  Universität der  Bundeswehr has concluded partnership contracts with an increasing number of international universities.  Furthermore, it is possible for civilians to receive a doctorate or to qualify as a university lecturer ( Habilitation).  All of the professors are civilians and the number of professors per student is significantly higher than at normal  German universities.  Thus in general the conditions for teaching are better.  In autumn 2009 the university introduced the first military related engineering course of study called  Defence  Engineering, which is solely dedicated to civilian students from industrial companies and federal institutions.  Military students of the university usually only have a maximum of 4 years to pass their  Master's within the intensive studies with more content.  If they do not finish their  Bachelor's after 2 1/4 years with the necessary grades they cannot proceed.  As the studies have to be finished in a shorter time than at common  German universities the academic year consists of three trimesters instead of the normal two semesters.

The university has restructured its courses of study according to the  Bologna treaty and offers bachelor's and master's degrees as well as doctoral and postdoctoral studies.  Universität der  Bundeswehr offers normal university courses of studies as well as a few more practical oriented  Fachhochschule ( University of  Applied  Sciences) study courses.

The university is very successful and well established in different fields of research, especially when it comes to aeronautical engineering (e.g. participation in the GALILEO satellite program and development of different parts of space probes) or computer-driven cars.  Bundeswehr  University has the largest aviation and aerospace faculty in  Germany. A main focus of the university are also all kinds of security technology.  The university is part of two excellence clusters of the  German government universities excellence initiative ( Cognition for  Technical  Systems and  Munich- Centre for  Advanced  Photonics).  The university hosts the ESA  Summer  School on  Global  Navigation  Satellite  Systems and the  Munich  Satellite  Navigation  Summit.  Bundeswehr  University forms part of the joint research and academic center  Munich  Aerospace, founded in 2010 and the  Bavarian  International  Campus  Aerospace &  Security, founded in 2012.  The university also has a number of partner companies which rely on the universities research expertise and support the university with products and facilities for testing and research.  To strengthen its research profile and enhance cooperation between the faculties,  Bundeswehr  University  Munich has created four interdisciplinary research centers: MOVE ( Modern  Vehicles), MIRA ( Munich  Integrated  Research on  Aerospace), RISK ( Risk,  Infrastructure,  Security and  Conflict), CODE ( Cyber  Defence).

Universität der  Bundeswehr München has partner universities worldwide.  The following list shows some examples:Buskerud and  Vestfold  University  College ( Norwegian: Høgskolen i  Buskerud og  Vestfold, HBV) was a regional university college with campuses in  Drammen,  Kongsberg, Hønefoss and  Horten in the counties of  Buskerud and  Vestfold,  Norway.

It was created as a merger of  Buskerud  University  College and  Vestfold  University  College on 1  January 2014.  It was the second-largest university college in  Norway, measured in students, after  Oslo and  Akershus  University  College.  From 2016 it merged with  Telemark  University  College to form the  University  College of  Southeast  Norway.The  Katholische  Universität  Eichstätt- Ingolstadt is a  Roman  Catholic university in  Eichstätt and  Ingolstadt,  Bavaria,  Germany.

Compared to other  German universities (e.g.  University of  Heidelberg) it is a rather small institution (with 4,800 students in summer 2005); nevertheless, it is the largest private university in  Germany.  The university has one campus in  Eichstätt situated in the  Altmühltal  Nature  Park and another campus in  Ingolstadt, one of  Germany's economically most successful cities.

The university's history dates back to a seminary for priests (" Collegium  Willibaldum"), which was founded in 1564 by  Bishop  Martin von  Schaumburg and the old  University of  Ingolstadt, the first university in  Bavaria, which was founded in 1472 with the approval of the pope.  The latter institution was moved to the capital  Munich – nowadays the  Ludwig- Maximilians- Universität München (LMU) by  King  Ludwig I in 1826.  One of the most famous rectors of the old  University of  Ingolstadt was the  Jesuit  Petrus  Canisius.

Today's university came into existence through a fusion of  Eichstätt's  School of  Education and the  School of  Philosophy and  Theology in 1980. A major role in the formation of the university was played by the former archbishop of  Munich- Freising,  Joseph  Kardinal  Ratzinger (now  Pope  Benedict XVI ), who later got an honorary doctorate from the university.  Among others receiving honorary doctorates from the university are the philosopher  Karl  Popper, and the former bishop of  Eichstätt  Alois  Brems.  In 1990, the  Catholic  University established the WFI -  Ingolstadt  School of  Management, one of  Germany's foremost business schools.  Since 1998 the  Collegium  Orientale, an academic institution associated with the university, hosts young theologians and priests from eastern  European and  Oriental churches who continue their post-graduate studies in  Eichstätt.

The university is largely funded by the state but is run by a self-governing public church trust ( Stiftung  Katholische  Universität  Eichstätt,  Kirchliche  Stiftung des Öffentlichen  Rechts) set up by  Bavarian  Catholic bishops on the basis of a concordat between the  Holy  See and the  Free  State of  Bavaria.  The ethos of  Catholic universities was defined in  Pope  John  Paul II's  Apostolic  Constitution of  Catholic  Churches.

The 8 faculties of the  Catholic  University of  Eichstätt- Ingolstadt offer 40 different subjects.  The CU is fully accredited by the  Free  State of  Bavaria, and is thus equated to  German state universities in all respects.  For students, personal faith does not play any part in the admission process.  The university library has a stock of books exceeding 1.5 million volumes, thus offering students and teaching staff immediate access to books of all areas via an electronic inventory accessible from almost anywhere.

The CU has a teacher-student ratio of 1:15.  In a  Germany-wide ranking by  Der  Spiegel in 1999 the CU was amongst  Germany's top universities.  In subsequent years the CU received high rankings for the learning environment it offers to its students.  Especially, the  Faculty of  Business in  Ingolstadt was and continues to be one of the most competitive business schools in  Germany.  In 2005, the CU's journalism program was ranked among the five best media and communication programs in  Germany.

The portion of international students from  Europe and all over the world is very high compared to state universities.  Russian,  Spanish,  French and  English are thus very common languages in  Eichstätt, many students being fluent in at least 2 of them.

One of the biggest changes currently affecting the CU is the shift from the old  German academic system to the new  European bachelor's and master's degrees based on credit points by 2010.  This change should help to allow students to spend time abroad easily, and transfer their grades easily for their degrees at the CU.

In addition, more and more BA and MA integrated degrees are being offered, where the students spend only part of their time at the CU, the rest at one of the partner universities.  These double or triple degrees offer a possibility to experience the academic environment of more than one country, and are an increasingly popular choice for freshmen at the CU.

The university has the following faculties:

There are also two integrated institutes of  Higher  Education for:

There are also:

In  February 2007 it was revealed that the university library had recycled 80 tons of books and journals, of which 68.4 tons had been donated from the central library in  Altötting of the  Bavarian  Capuchin monasteries.  This is about one quarter of the 300,000 volumes of philosophy and theology donated for the purpose of being included in university library's collections.  An inquest ordered by the  Government of the  Free  State of  Bavaria concluded that no valuable books had been destroyed.

The  Main  Campus is situated in  Eichstätt, the university buildings being within walking distance (about 10 minutes) from the town center.  The  Faculty of  Economics is located in  Ingolstadt, site of the first  Bavarian university in 1472.Copenhagen  Business  School ( Danish:  Handelshøjskolen i København) often abbreviated and referred to as CBS, is a public university situated in  Copenhagen, the capital of  Denmark. CBS was established in 1917 by the  Danish  Society for the  Advancement of  Business  Education and  Research (FUHU), however, it wasn't until 1920 that accounting became the first full study programme at CBS.  Today CBS has more than 20,000 students, 2,000 employees and offers a wide range of undergraduate and graduate programmes within business, typically with an interdisciplinary and international focus. CBS is accredited by EQUIS ( European  Quality  Improvement  System), AMBA ( Association of MB As), as well as AACSB ( Association to  Advance  Collegiate  Schools of  Business), thus making it one of the few schools worldwide to hold the "triple-crown" accreditation, and along with  Aarhus BSS, the only two in  Denmark

CBS' campus is located in  Frederiksberg, close to the center of  Copenhagen, and centers on CBS' main campus  Solbjerg  Plads (finished in 2000).  Since the  Danish  Universities  Act of 2003, CBS has had a  Board of  Directors with an external majority.  The  Board of  Directors appoints the  President of CBS, who is currently  Per  Holten- Andersen.  Most of the programs are taught in  English and more than 50% of the faculty is recruited from abroad, making CBS an international academic environment.

CBS was established in 1917 by the  Danish  Society for the  Advancement of  Business  Education (now known as FUHU), which is a private educational institution.  In 1965 the business school became integrated as an institution of higher education in the  Danish education system.  Today it is regulated by the  Danish  Universities  Act of 2003.

CBS offers a range of university degrees in business economics and modern languages for international business communication in  Denmark.

The B Sc in  International  Business covers three main areas of study,  Economics,  Business  Economics/ Management, and  Methodology.  The B Sc IB is the only program in  Denmark that offers students the opportunity to join the GLOBE ( Global  Learning  Opportunities in  Business  Education) program or the  Eng AGE ( Engaged,  Applied,  Global  Education) program.

The B Sc in  International  Business and  Politics is an interdisciplinary bachelor program which offers students a joint concentration in management and economics, political science and international relations.

European  Business, abbreviated as EB, is a bachelor program (BA) offering students a wide knowledge about  Europe, including social, political, economic and cultural factors.  The students will gain a wide understanding of the EU,  Europe and how companies can structure internalization to these markets.

English  Organizational  Communication, abbreviated as EOK, is a bachelor program (BA) offering students an understanding of how  English is and can be used in an international company.  The students will gain an understanding of how the communication can be used to  English markets.

Intercultural  Market  Communication, also known as IMK, is a bachelor program (BA) that will teach students how to communicate from market to market, when cultural aspects are involved.

Some of the graduate degree and diploma programmes:

CBS is an urban university primarily located in four modern buildings in  Frederiksberg, close to the center of  Copenhagen.  The main complex,  Solbjerg  Plads, was opened in 2000 and includes 34,000 m2 of student and office space surrounded by gardens and outdoor living space.  Designed by  Vilhelm  Lauritzer  Architects, the complex consists of interconnected concrete, glass and tile-sided buildings of varying heights that house student auditoriums, faculty office space, a cafeteria, the main library, a student bar and the campus bookstore.

Dalgas  Have, opened in 1989 and designed by  Henning  Larsen  Architects, is the oldest building currently in use.  Owned by the  Danish  Pension  Fund for  Engineers and leased by CBS, the building includes 20,000 m2 of student classrooms, study space and offices distributed around a three-story 175 m long arcade.  At the midpoint of the arcade a two-story semi-circular cafeteria sits below a semi-circular library.

Kilen ( The  Wedge) was opened in 2006 and includes 10,000 m2 of student classrooms, study spaces, and offices for research and administration.  Designed by  Lundgaard &  Tranberg  Architects, the four-story wedge-shaped building features a large oval-shaped atrium that extends the height of the building.  The exterior is covered with full-story screens made of wood, matte glass or copper, which rotate in response to the  Sun and weather.  Kilen has been the recipient of numerous architecture and design awards such as a RIBA  European  Award in 2006.

Porcelænshaven, the fourth main building that comprises the CBS campus, is leased by CBS from the  Danish  Society for the  Advancement of  Business  Education.  Formerly the  Royal  Copenhagen  Porcelain  Factory, the factory has been converted into 20,000 m2 of student classrooms, study spaces, offices, and a student residence. A central feature of the building, a 1,000 m2 main hall used for large events, stands in the old location of the factory kiln hall.  As part of the factory conversion,  Henning  Larsen  Architects transformed the old raw material storage building into 3,800 m2 of modern study space.

CBS campus buildings reflect characteristic  Scandinavian style and have been recognized by  Frederiksberg  Municipality earning an  Award for  Good and  Beautiful  Building in 2006 and 2009.  The four main buildings are within walking distance and located along three consecutive stations on the  Copenhagen  Metro from  Lindevang  Station ( Dalgas  Have) to  Frederiksberg  Station ( Solbjerg  Plads).

Student facilities include multimedia labs, interpretation labs, break-out rooms for group and project work, personal computers and  Learning  Resource  Center.  Computers are replaced with new models at least every third year.  Plugs for portable laptops are readily available, and wireless connections are installed in the main buildings.

CBS offers a range of university degrees in business economics and modern languages for international business communication in  Denmark.  The selection of full-time programmes complies with the three levels:

As of  September 2009, two of  Denmark’s new  Master programmes for top qualified foreign and  Danish students are offered at CBS:  The  Master in  Advanced  Economics and  Finance and the interdisciplinary  Master  Programme in  International  Law,  Economics and  Management (ILECMA) which is offered in partnership with the  University of  Copenhagen.

CBS is the  Danish member of CEMS -  Global  Alliance in  Management  Education and a member of  Partnership in  International  Management (PIM), and focuses on double degree agreements with other top business schools. CBS has exchange and cooperation agreements with 390 universities and business schools around the world, half of which are  European. 43% of CBS programmes are taught in  English and CBS offers approximately 200 separate courses taught in  English.

In the 2015 QS ranking of the world’s top universities for business and management,  Copenhagen  Business  School ranks #10 in the world and #6 in  Europe.  In 2016, CBS was ranked 13th in the world and 7th in  Europe.  This ranking aims to assess institutions’ overall performance and reputation in the business and management field (at both undergraduate and graduate level) and is headed by  London  Business  School, followed by  Harvard  Business  School and INSEAD.

The  French ratings agency  Eduniversal ranked  Copenhagen  Business  School the #1 business school in the world in 2014, ahead of  London  Business  School and  Harvard  Business  School.  This ranking is based on the recommendations of deans and presidents of leading business schools from more than 150 countries.

In the 2015  Better  World MBA  Ranking, which is published by  Corporate  Knights, the  Copenhagen  Business  School MBA program ranks #3 globally.  This ranking evaluates which MBA programs offer the best package of core courses, research, and support centers to foster a comprehensive sustainability-oriented learning experience, hereby aiming to identify which MB As best prepare graduates ″to change the world for the better″.

The  Economist ranked the CBS  Executive MBA program #60 worldwide in its  Executive MBA  Ranking 2015.  The  Economist also ranked the  Copenhagen  Business  School MBA program #83 in the global  Top 100 in 2011.  The  Copenhagen  Business  School MBA program did not make the  Economist's list of  Top 100 MB As for 2014.

The QS  Global 200  Business  School  Report 2014/15 ranked the  Copenhagen  Business  School MBA program #12 in  Europe.  The same report ranked the  Copenhagen  Business  School MBA program in the top cluster of MBA programs globally.  The top cluster, of four clusters total, comprises 20  North  American MBA programs, 14  European MBA programs and 4  Asia  Pacific MBA programs.

The  Copenhagen  Business  School MBA program has been ranked #28 by  Bloomberg  Businessweek in its  International  Full-time MBA  Ranking 2015.  This ranking does not include the  Business schools in the US.

The  Financial  Times ranked  Copenhagen  Business  School #32 worldwide in its  Masters in  Management 2015 ranking.  The  Financial  Times also ranked the CBS  Executive MBA program #62 in the world and #31 in  Europe in 2015.  The  Copenhagen  Business  School MBA program has not been ranked in the  Financial  Times's list of  Top 100 MB As in 2015 though.

The  Aspen  Institute's " Beyond  Grey  Pinstripes" bi-annual report ranked the  Copenhagen  Business  School MBA program #43 globally (#7 in  Europe) in its 2011-2012 report and #63 globally (#9 in  Europe) in its 2009-2010 report.

Copenhagen  Business  School is accredited by the  Association to  Advance  Collegiate  Schools of  Business, the  Association of MB As, and the  European  Quality  Improvement  System.  Copenhagen  Business  School and  Aarhus  University are the only two business schools in  Denmark, and two of 57 business schools globally to earn  Triple accreditation.  Copenhagen  Business  School earned the AACSB accreditation in 2011, the AMBA accreditation in 2007 and the EQUIS accreditation in 2000.  In 2015 CBS received the EQUIS seal of approval and thereby remains among the best 1% of business schools worldwide in terms of triple-crown accreditation.

Founded in 2012,  Marketing Lab is an organization driven by students who all share a common interest for creative marketing.  The mission of the organization is to create a bridge between students and the industry.  The team consists of the most ambitious students working on a weekly basis with events, courses and consulting.

CBS  Sport is an independent sports organization belonging to CBS.  Established in 2006, CBS  Sport currently has 12 sports:Dalarna  University  College ( Swedish: Högskolan  Dalarna) is a public university (högskola) located in  Falun and  Borlänge, in  Dalarna  County,  Sweden.

Dalarna  University is one of  Sweden’s more recent institutions of higher education, established in 1977.  It is situated in  Dalarna, 200 kilometres north-west of  Stockholm.

In 2015, the university had 16,344 students, with 11,642 of them studying via distance education.  The campuses are located in  Falun, the administrative capital of the province, and in the neighbouring town of  Borlänge.

Dalarna  University is deemed qualified to award  Phd degrees in  Microdata  Analysis following assessment by  The  Swedish  National  Agency for  Higher  Education.

Research in  Complex  Systems and  Microdata  Analysis at  Borlänge campus is carried out in collaboration with business and industry, and increases the competitiveness for trade, IT, transport and tourism in the region.  Research in this subject area accounts for some 35 million SEK at the university.  The field has some 50 employed researchers and teachers at the  Borlänge campus and on top of that a further 30 doctoral students who are able to complete their education at  Dalarna  University.

There are three schools at the  University:The  Technische  Universität  Dresden (usually mistakenly translated from  German as  Dresden  University of  Technology and abbreviated TU  Dresden or TUD) is a public research university, the largest institute of higher education in the city of  Dresden, the largest university in  Saxony and one of the 10 largest universities in  Germany with 37,134 students as of 2013 .  The name  Technische  Universität  Dresden has only been used since 1961; the history of the university, however, goes back nearly 200 years to 1828.  This makes it one of the oldest colleges of technology in  Germany, and one of the country’s oldest universities, which in  German today refers to institutes of higher education which cover the entire curriculum.  The university is member of TU9, a consortium of the nine leading  German  Institutes of  Technology.  The university is one of the eleven  German universities which succeeded in the  Excellence  Initiative in 2012, thus getting the title of a " University of  Excellence".  The TU  Dresden succeeded in all three rounds of the  German  Universities  Excellence  Initiative ( Future  Concept,  Graduate  Schools,  Clusters of  Excellence).

In 1828, with emerging industrialization, the " Saxon  Technical  School" was founded to educate skilled workers in technological subjects such as mechanics, mechanical engineering and ship construction.  In 1871, the year the  German  Empire was founded, the institute was renamed the  Royal  Saxon  Polytechnic  Institute (Königlich-Sächsisches  Polytechnikum).  At that time, subjects not connected with technology, such as history and languages, were introduced.  By the end of the 19th century the institute had developed into a university covering all disciplines.  In 1961 it was given its present name, the  Dresden  University of  Technology ( Technische  Universität  Dresden).

Upon  German reunification in 1990, the university had already integrated the  College of  Forestry ( Forstliche  Hochschule), formerly the  Royal  Saxony  Academy of  Forestry, in the nearby small town of  Tharandt.  This was followed by the integration of the  Dresden  College of  Engineering ( Ingenieurshochschule  Dresden), the  Friedrich  List  College of  Transport ( Hochschule für  Verkehrswesen) the faculty of transport science, and the “ Carl- Gustav  Carus”  Medical  Academy ( Medizinische  Akademie or  Med Ak for short), the medical faculty.  Some faculties were newly founded: the faculties of  Information  Technology (1991),  Law (1991),  Education (1993) and  Economics (1993).

The  Dresden  University of  Technology is organized into 14 faculties.  Almost all faculties are located on the main campus  South of the city center, except for the  Faculty of  Medicine which has its own campus near the  Elbe river  East of the city center and the  Department of  Forestry in  Tharandt.

With 4,390 students the  Faculty of  Mathematics and the  Natural  Sciences is the second-largest faculty at the university.  It is composed of 5 departments,  Biology,  Chemistry,  Mathematics,  Physics and  Psychology.  The departments are all located on the main campus.  In 2006, a new research building for the biology department opened.  In  October 2006 the  Deutsche  Forschungsgemeinschaft decided to fund a new graduate school, the  Dresden  International  Graduate  School for  Biomedicine and  Bioengineering and a so-called cluster of excellence  From  Cells to  Tissues to  Therapies.

With regard to its ability to generate research money from industry partners, the TU  Dresden belongs to the most successful in  Germany.  In 2004 3,564 projects were financed with 104.1 million  Euro from outside sources (other than state funds).  The TU  Dresden benefits from the strong research tradition in microelectronics and transport sciences in the  Dresden area, but also from the establishment of new research fields such as  Biotechnology.

The  Deutsche  Forschungsgemeinschaft supports the university in many areas and TU  Dresden cooperates closely with renowned research institutes such as  Fraunhofer  Society,  Gottfried  Wilhelm  Leibniz  Scientific  Community and  Max  Planck  Society.

The university has established a strong partnership with the  Max  Planck  Institute for  Molecular  Cell  Biology and  Genetics in molecular bioengineering.  As part of the  German  Universities  Excellence  Initiative, the  Deutsche  Forschungsgemeinschaft has decided to fund the  Cluster of  Excellence " From  Cells to  Tissues to  Therapies:  Engineering the  Cellular  Basis of  Regeneration" (DFG- Center for  Regenerative  Therapies  Dresden), as well as a new graduate school, the " Dresden  International  Graduate  School for  Biomedicine and  Bioengineering" with about 300  Ph D students.

The  Deutsche  Forschungsgemeinschaft funds research in the area of electromagnetic flow influence in metallurgy, artificial crystal formation and electrochemistry.  Other research is done on the  Meissner effect and artificial fibers (textile).

Silicon  Saxony is the biggest cluster of the microelectronics industries in  Europe. TU  Dresden is incorporated in this network with three departments of the  Faculties of  Electrical  Engineering and  Sciences.  Together with the  Fraunhofer  Center for  Nano-electronic technologies (CNT) it represents one of the leading universities in the field of nanotechnology.  There is also a research cooperation with some semiconductor fields of TU  Freiberg.  In  May 2012 the  Helmholtz- Kolleg NANONET was founded.

The university has a partnership with the  Fraunhofer- Institut for  Transport and  Infrastructure systems to research on IT-systems for public transport in  Dresden.

In partnership with TU  Dresden, the  Ifo  Institute of  Economic  Research ( Ifo  Institut für  Wirtschaftsforschung e.V.) is researching the economic development in  Eastern  Germany.

The university belongs to a consortium of  European  Universities offering the  Erasmus  Mundus  Joint  Doctoral  Programme IT4 BI-DC for  Business  Intelligence.

The university offers a comprehensive spectrum of courses and research.  It has a high reputation in technical fields such as electrical engineering, computer science, photo optics, engine construction and traffic logistics.

The university is considered highly underfunded.  Until 2020 more than 1,000 jobs are to be cut at  Saxon universities, including  Dresden  University of  Technology.  As of 2012 there is an annual funding gap of about 50 million  Euros.  Since  March 2012, every single new or extended employment contract needs to be personally approved by the  Minister- President of  Saxony.  The  Minister- President of  Saxony promised to end this situation in case the university achieves what media often call an elite status in the  German excellence initiative.  The university officially achieved the status on  June 15, 2012.

The  Center of  Biotechnology ("BIOTEC") is a unique interdisciplinary center focusing on research and teaching in molecular bioengineering.  The BIOTEC hosts top international research groups dedicated to genomics, proteomics, biophysics, cellular machines, tissue engineering, and bioinformatics.

The university is currently developing new strategies to make itself more independent from state funding and decision making.  As one of the first universities in  Germany it has opened a branch in  Hanoi,  Vietnam offering a  Master's course in mechatronics.  It also maintains close partnerships with leading universities around the world, e.g.  Boston  University,  Georgetown  University,  Harvard  Medical  School,  Tongji  University and POSTECH.

In 2009 TU  Dresden, all  Dresden institutes of the  Fraunhofer  Society, the  Gottfried  Wilhelm  Leibniz  Scientific  Community and the  Max  Planck  Society and  Forschungszentrum  Dresden- Rossendorf, soon incorporated into the  Helmholtz  Association of  German  Research  Centres, published a joint letter of intent with the name DRESDEN- Konzept -  Dresden  Research and  Education  Synergies for the  Development of  Excellence and  Novelty, which points out worldwide elite aspirations, which was recognized as the first time that all four big post-gradual elite institutions declared campus co-operation with a university.  These  German semi-public institutes hire their team leaders globally and settle freely within  Germany and the city of  Dresden has appealed to an unmatched absolute number of them.  Building on that circle the university and non-university institutions formed  Dresden  Concept to strengthen international awareness and the position in applications for the  German excellence initiative. A significant decision about success or failure of this strategy concept was expected for  June 15, 2012.  The characteristic focus on the technical and nature-science subjects of almost all quality-endeavours displeased especially students from other subjects who have to suffer most from reorganization, cancellation and shortage of qualified staffmembers.

TU  Dresden is a campus university in most aspects.  Some of its buildings are more than a hundred years old (such as the buildings around  Muenchner  Platz square).  The architecture of these buildings is mostly influenced by the art nouveau style or the  Bauhaus school (e.g. the  Chemistry building  Fritz- Foerster- Bau).  In recent years these historic building have been complemented by modern buildings (e.g. the library, the main auditorium, the biochemistry department or the life sciences building).

The main campus, as well as the medical faculty and that of  Computer  Science, are all within the boundaries of the city of  Dresden.  The main campus is located  South of the city center, mostly in the area bordered by Nöthnitzer  Straße,  Fritz-Förster- Platz and Münchner  Platz; the medical faculty can be found in the  Johannstadt district.  The faculty of forestry, formerly the  Royal  Saxon  Academy of  Forestry, resides in a forest area in the nearby town of  Tharandt.

Of the roughly 35,000 students, 45% are studying  Engineering  Sciences, 36.2%  Humanities and  Social  Sciences, 12.5%  Natural  Sciences and  Mathematics and 6.3%  Medicine.

About 59% (20,620) of the student body originates from  Saxony, 18.9% (6,626) from other  Eastern  German federal states, 12.3% (4,306) from the  Western  German federal states and 9.8% (3,442) from other countries.

Of the 20,620 students from  Saxony, 12,351 (59.9%) are from  Dresden, 2,934 (14,2%) from the  Dresden metro area and 5,335 (25.9%) from other parts of  Saxony.

The origin of the students is based on the location where the A-level exams have been completed.

There are 3,442 international students enrolled at the TU  Dresden (2005/2006).  Most of the foreign students come from  Europe (1,527), followed by  Asia (1,404) and  America (170).  Ranked by countries the largest group of students comes from  China (710), followed by  Poland (294),  Vietnam (196),  Bulgaria (160) and  Russia (154).  The university is also quite popular among  Central and  East  European countries such as the neighboring  Czech  Republic or  Ukraine.  Also, through the  Erasmus programme and partnerships with universities in the USA, there are many  English,  French and  Spanish speaking students.  The language spoken during lessons is nearly always  German on most faculties.  To prepare for admissions to the university, many foreign students attend  German language courses at the  University affiliated language school TUDIAS- Sprachschule.

International students interested in TU  Dresden should visit the websites of the " Akademisches  Auslandsamt" ( International office) for more information.  This office is responsible for handling international applications.  In the end of 2011 13.7% of beginning students came from abroad.

A number of activities for international students facilitates their integration and help students to find new friends.  Most notably the  Erasmus- Initiative TU  Dresden offers many group activities throughout the semester which are open to all students (not only to  Erasmus participants). A student run program, the  Link Partner Programm matches every interested international student with a  German student, to help him or her with questions arising during the first weeks, be it regarding course registration or any other issue students might have.

Sports are very popular among the TUD students.  There are eight big students' clubs and the summer campus party is considered to be the biggest in  Germany.  There are cafeterias as at most universities and the largest refectory can compete with some restaurants even as far as menu size.

Among the many groups at the TU  Dresden are four major ensembles.  These four include the theater group " Die Bühne" which has a small ensemble directed by professionals, and the folk dance group " Folkloretanzensemble  Thea- Maass" which is dedicated to reviving regional styles of dance.  The last two groups are the largest by far and these are the  University  Choir and the  University  Orchestra, both having student and non-student members of all ages.  In 1997 a part of the  University  Orchestra branched off into a chamber ensemble, becoming the "TU- Kammerphilharmonie", and since it consists almost exclusively of students the ensemble rehearses and performs only during the academic year.  Each of these major ensembles performs an average of one to four times per semester.  These performances often take place in  Saxony but also occasionally internationally.The  Freie  Universität  Berlin ( English:  Free  University of  Berlin, often abbreviated as FU  Berlin or simply FU) is a research university located in  Berlin and one of the most prominent universities in  Germany.  It is internationally known for its research in the humanities and social sciences, as well as in the field of natural and life sciences.

Founded in  West  Berlin during the early  Cold  War period, its name refers to city's status as part of the free western world.

Freie  Universität  Berlin is one of eleven  German elite universities in the  German  Universities  Excellence  Initiative, a national competition for institutions of higher education.  Winning a distinction for five doctoral programs, three interdisciplinary research clusters and its overall institutional strategy as an " International  Network  University".

Freie  Universität  Berlin was established by students and scholars on 4  December 1948.  The foundation is strongly connected to the beginning of the  Cold  War period.  The  University of  Berlin was located in the former  Soviet sector of  Berlin and was granted permission to continue teaching by the  Soviet  Military  Administration in  Germany (SMAD) in  January 1946.  The universities were increasingly influenced by communism as they were ground for the political disputes of the postwar period.  This led to protests by students critical of the prevailing system.  Between 1945 and 1948, more than 18 students were arrested or persecuted, some even executed by the soviet secret police (NKVD).

At the end of 1947, first students demanded a university free from political influence.  The climax of the protests was reached on 23  April 1948: after three students were expelled from the university without a trial, about 2,000 students protested at the  Hotel  Esplanade.  By the end of  April, the governor of the  United  States  Army  Lucius D.  Clay gave the order to legally check for the formation of a new university in the western sectors.  On 19  June 1948 the "preparatory committee for establishing a free university" consisting of politicians, professors, administrative staff members and students, met.  With a manifesto titled " Request for establishing a free university in  Berlin" the committee appealed to the public for support.  The municipal authorities of  Berlin granted the foundation of a free university and requested the opening for the coming winter semester 1948/49.  Meanwhile, the students committee in the  German  Democratic  Republic protested against the formation, the GDR described the new university as the "so-called free university" in official documents until the fall of the  Berlin  Wall.

The  Council-manager government accepted the by-law on 4  November 1948.  The by-law achieved prominence under its alias "the  Berlin model":  Freie  Universität was founded as a statutory corporation (Körperschaft des öffentlichen  Rechts) and was not directly subjected to the state, as it was controlled by a supervisory board consisting of six representatives of the state of  Berlin, three representatives of the university and students.  This form was unique in  Germany at that time, as the students had much more influence on the system than before.  But until the 1970s, the involvement of the students in the committees was slowly cut back while adapting to the model of the western  German universities in order to be fully recognized as an equivalent university.  On 15  November 1948, the first lectures were held in the buildings of the  Kaiser  Wilhelm  Society for the  Advancement of  Science.  The actual foundation took place on 4  December 1948 in the  Titania palace, the film theater with the biggest hall available in the western sectors of  Berlin.  Attendants of the event were not only scientists, politicians (the  Governing  Mayor  Ernst  Reuter amongst others) and students, but also representatives of  American universities, among them  Stanford  University and  Yale  University.  The first elected president of the FU  Berlin was the historian  Friedrich  Meinecke.

In 1949,  Freie  Universität already registered 4,946 students.  Until the construction of the  Berlin  Wall in 1961, many students came from the soviet sector, often supported through the "Währungsstipendium" of the senate.

On 26  June 1963, the same day he held his famous  Ich bin ein  Berliner speech at  Rathaus  Schöneberg,  John F.  Kennedy was awarded honorary citizen by the  Freie  Universität and held a ceremonial speech in front of the  Henry  Ford building in which he addressed the future of  Berlin and  Germany under the consideration of the motto of the FU.  Amongst the attendant crowd are also the  Governing  Mayor of  Berlin  Willy  Brandt and the  Chancellor of  Germany  Konrad  Adenauer.  His brother,  Robert F.  Kennedy visited  Freie  Universität in 1962 for the first time and in  June 1964 for receiving his honorary degree from the  Department of  Philosophy.  The speech he held at the event was dedicated to  John F.  Kennedy, who was assassinated just the year before.

In the late 1960s,  Freie  Universität was one of the main scenes of the  German student movement of 68 as a reaction to the global student protests during that time.  After the assassination of student  Benno  Ohnesorg and the attempt on  Rudi  Dutschke's life, protests quickly escalated to violence in all of  Germany.  The events of the 68-movement provided the impulse for more openness, equality, and democracy in  German society.

During the 1970s and the 1980s, the university became a " Massenuniversität" (mass/mega university) with 50,298 registered students in 1983.  After reunification,  Freie  Universität was the second largest university in  Germany (after the  Ludwig  Maximilian  University of  Munich) with 62,072 students in the winter term of 1991/92.  Shortly thereafter, the senate of  Berlin decided to drastically reduce the places until 2003, the number of students shrank to 43,885 in the winter term of 2002/03.  Since 2000, the  Freie  Universität  Berlin has revamped itself.  The university's research performance increased markedly with regard to the number of graduates,  Ph Ds granted, and publications.  Underlying this successful trend were fundamental reforms such as the introduction of modern management systems in the administration, a reorganization of the departments, and an efficient utilization of resources.  The  Prognos AG, the renowned economic consulting corporation founded by the  University of  Basel,  Switzerland, presented  Freie  Universität with an award for its good entrepreneurial principles.

Since 2003, the FU  Berlin has been regrouping its research capacities into interdisciplinary research focus areas called clusters.  Due to financial cutbacks and restructuring of medical schools in the same year, the medical institutions of  Freie  Universität and the  Humboldt  University merged to create a joint department, the  Charité –  Universitätsmedizin  Berlin.

The year 2007 was another crucial year for the  Freie  Universität as it was the university with the most approved funding applications in the  German  Universities  Excellence  Initiative, and it is now one of nine elite  German universities to receive funding for its future development strategy.  In the same year,  Freie  Universität dedicated a monument to the founding students who were murdered during the protests.  The university presents its  Freedom  Award to personalities who have made a special contribution toward the cause of freedom.  In 2012,  Freie  Universität successfully entered the third period of the initiative.

Based on its founding tradition, the  Freie  Universität's seal to this day bears the  Latin terms for  Truth,  Justice, and  Liberty.  The designer of the seal was art historian and former president of the  Freie  Universität  Edwin  Redslob.

Most of the facilities of  Freie  Universität are located in the residential garden district of  Dahlem in southwestern  Berlin.  Around the beginning of the 20th century,  Dahlem was established as a center for research of the highest caliber.  Academic activity in  Dahlem was supported by  Friedrich  Althoff,  Ministerial  Director in the  Prussian  Ministry of  Culture, who initially proposed the foundation of a " German  Oxford".

The first new buildings housed government science agencies and new research institutes of the  University of  Berlin.  The  Kaiser  Wilhelm  Society – forerunner of the present-day  Max  Planck  Society – was founded in 1911 and established several institutes in  Dahlem.

A dynamic group of researchers carried out pioneering research resulting in numerous  Nobel  Prizes.  Since its foundation,  Freie  Universität has been using buildings formerly belonging to the  Kaiser  Wilhelm  Society and, in addition, has added numerous architecturally innovative buildings.

Freie  Universität's central campus consists of building ensembles within walking distance of each other (about 1.5 km radius).  The planners oriented themselves along the type of campus found in the  United  States – a novelty in post-war  Germany.  The first independent structure to be completed on campus was the  Henry  Ford building, funded by the  Ford  Foundation.  To that point, the university was housed in several older structures around the neighborhood, including the  Otto  Hahn building, which houses the  Department of  Biochemistry to this day.  Thanks to further donations from the  United  States,  Freie  Universität was able to construct several new central building complexes including the  Benjamin  Franklin university clinic complex.  The largest single complex of university buildings is the  Rost- und  Silberlaube, which translates roughly to the " Rust and  Silver  Lodges".  This complex consists of a series of interlinked structures corresponding to either a deep bronze (hence, "rust") or shiny white ("silver") hue, surrounding a variety of leafy courtyards.

It has been complemented in 2005 by a new centerpiece, the brain-shaped  Philological  Library, designed by  British architect  Lord  Norman  Foster.

With 43 ha and around 22,000 species of plants, the botanical garden of the FU in the east of  Dahlem is one of the biggest of its kind.

The main campus can be reached by public transportation:  With the U- Bahn line U3, various busses and the S- Bahn line S1, students can reach the centers of  Berlin in under 15 minutes.

The campus in  Lankwitz, formerly part of a teacher training college, is now home to the department of  Earth sciences and a part of the university archives.  Until their move to  Dahlem in 2008, the  Institute for  Media and  Communication  Studies was located there.

Most of the divisions of the  Department of  Veterinary  Medicine are based in Düppel.  It is 2 km southwest of the main campus and consists of numerous clinics and institutes, amongst them a small animal clinic, a clinic for horses and an institute of poultry diseases.

Since the formation of the FU in 1948, it has used public hospitals as part of the medical faculty.  Between 1959 and 1969, the " Steglitz  Clinic", about 3 km southeast of  Dahlem, was built with large financial supports of the  United  States.  The medical center became one of the biggest  European medical establishments unifying all institutes, clinics and lecture halls.  In honor of the support by the  United  States, the clinic was renamed " University  Clinic  Benjamin  Franklin".  In 1994, it consists of 36 scientific institutes and 1,200 hospital beds.  After the merger in 2003, it became part of the  Charité medical school.

Today, the district of  Dahlem is a hotspot for research and culture:  Beside several institutes of the renowned  Max  Planck  Society (amongst others:  The  Max  Planck  Institute for  Research in  Education (MPIB), the MPI for the  History of  Science, the MPI for  Molecular  Genetics, the  Fritz  Haber  Institute (FHI) working in the fields of molecular physics and physical chemistry and the archive of the MPG), the campus is also home to the  Zuse  Institute  Berlin as well as some federal institutions like the  Federal  Institute for  Materials  Research (BAM) and the  Federal  Institute for  Risk  Assessment ( Bf R).

The  Berlin  Geography  Society founded in 1828, the  Berlin  University for  Professional  Studies and the  German  Archeological  Institute (DAI) are also located on the campus.  In addition,  Dahlem is an important location for the  Berlin  State  Museums group, housing the  Ethnological  Museum of  Berlin and the  Museum of  Asian  Art.

During the 1960s, a student village with 27 buildings was constructed near  Schlachtensee lake serving as housing opportunities for students.

With an inventory of 8.5 million volumes and over 25,000 journals distributed in the central university library (UB) and 49 specialized libraries of the institutes, the library system of the FU is the biggest in  Germany.  Items published since 1990 are fully digitalized and accessible through an OPAC.  The UB is granted the status  United  Nations  Depository  Library and is linked to the global library system of the UN under direction of the  Dag  Hammarskjöld  Library in  New  York.  The  European  Union also uses the UB as a  European  Documentation  Center.  As part of the library of the UN and the EU, it contains all publications of the UN  General  Assembly, the UN  Security  Council, the  International  Court of  Justice as well as publications from the  Council of  Europe and the  Organization for  Security and  Co-operation in  Europe.

Although the UB is generally a lending library, some smaller libraries of the departments are so called  Präsenzbibliotheken, where students are only able to read books or journals.  Since 2005, the FU creates a new library with about 12,250 m2 of usable space.  It is planned to include all libraries of the natural science departments and the smaller institutes in the humanities (e.g.  Egyptology).  The projected costs are around 51 million euros.  Construction work started in  March 2012 with plans on finishing at the end of 2014.

With 33,000 applicants for the undergraduate programs ( Bachelor) in 2013, admissions at  Freie  Universität remain highly competitive as the university only offers about 4,300 places each year.  Due to the high numbers of applicants, most undergraduate programs at  Freie  Universität have limitations determined through the NC.  The general deadline for students directly from high school applying to limited programs in the coming winter semester is 15  July every year at all universities in  Germany.

In some cases (especially  Medicine and  Psychology), the NC every year is as high as 1.0 (see  Grades in  Germany and  Abitur).  Critical applicants which just scored slightly below the NC can be invited to an selective interview or an entry exam, depending on the department/faculty.  Applicants at  Charité medical school who do not directly fulfill the NC-criteria have to pass an entry exam, which covers the basic fields of  Mathematics,  Biology,  Chemistry and  Physics in addition to passing a selective interview.  Both results are then added to the  Abitur grade.  The final decision depends on the results of the competitors.

The executive board consists of the president ( Prof.  Dr.  Peter- André  Alt), an executive vice president ( Dr.  Monika  Schäfer- Korting) and three other vice presidents, as well as the  Director of  Administration and  Finance ( Peter  Lange).  There are also supporting offices for  Public  Affairs and the  General  Counsel for legal affairs.

For accomplishing administrative tasks within the university, the central administration is split into multiple divisions:

There are currently eight central service institutions (ZE) of the FU:

The ISQ (" Institut für  Schulqualität der Länder  Berlin und  Brandenburg",  Institute for  Quality of  Schools in  Berlin and  Brandenburg) is an independent facility on the campus.  It consults local schools and the senate to achieve and develop a high standard of school quality in  Berlin and  Brandenburg and closely cooperates with the  Department of  Education and  Psychology of the FU.

The  Collegium  Musicum of  Freie  Universität was founded during the first semester in 1948/49.  Under conductor  Karl  Forster, it merged with the ensemble of the  Technical  University  Berlin in 1954.  Today, the  Collegium  Musicum has around 500 members from all fields of studies who spend their leisure time making music.  It currently consists of five ensembles: a big choir, a chamber choir, two smyphony orchestras and a big band.  There are frequently events on which the  Collegium  Musicum plays, for instance on ceremonies.

With 12 departments (FB) and three interdisciplinary central institutes, the university can be seen as an universitas litterarum (a traditional university where studies in all basic sciences is possible).

Despite the variety of subjects, apart from computer science, studies in the field of engineering can only be done at the  Technical  University or universities of applied science ( Fachhochschulen).

Freie  Universität operates on a semester calendar where the winter term begins on 1  October and ends on 31  March.  The exact same model can be found at almost every university in  Germany.  The time where lectures are being held varies each year, normally beginning around mid- October and ending as early as mid- February.  Freie  Universität offers a broad spectrum of subjects in over 190 degree programs. A speciality of the FU is the possibility to study a vast amount of "small subjects" (e.g. theater and film studies,  Egyptology,  Byzantine studies,  Jewish studies,  Turkology,  Sinology,  Communication studies,  Meteorology,  Bioinformatics,  Biochemistry) with a high level of specialization.  Due to the  Bologna process, most of the undergraduate programs are now leading to the three-year  Bachelor's degree with 180 ECTS.  At  Freie  Universität,  Bachelor programs are generally divided into three categories: a regular  Bachelor called " Mono- Bachelor", a combined  Bachelor (" Kombi- Bachelor") consisting of two fields of studies and a combined  Bachelor with a teaching option.  Besides the core subject(s), all students are required to complete a series of courses related to general professional skills (ABV).  The old  Diplom and  Magister artium programs are still running, but do not accept new admissions anymore.  In the fields of  Medicine,  Veterinary  Medicine,  Dentistry,  Pharmacy and the law, students enroll in programs with  Staatsexamen.  Freie  Universität also offers a variety of graduate degrees, from the master's degree to doctoral degrees.

Apart from the regular  Master's programs, there are a variety of international programs taught in  English, especially in the life sciences:

Freie  Universität does not charge any tuition fees in the classical sense.  Since 2003, public universities in  Berlin introduced the model of semester contributions ( Semesterbeiträge).  It consists of an enrollment/re-registration fee, a contribution to the student union ( Studentenwerk), a contribution for the student government and the fee for the semester ticket (public transportation pass) for the current semester.  The fees for the semester ticket is defined by a contract with the local transportation company, the  Verkehrsverbund  Berlin- Brandenburg and allows students to move freely in the ABC zones of  Berlin.  In the winter semester of 2013/14, students are required to pay €285.83 in total.  Since 2011,  Freie  Universität participates in the national " Germany  Scholarship" program organized by the federal government, universities and numerous private companies.  Highly talented and committed students can get €300 each month.

The annual national and international rankings, the various collaborative research centers funded by  German  Research  Foundation DFG and the state and the numerous laureates make  Freie  Universität one of the most successful and prominent establishments of research in  Germany.  In terms of external endowments by the DFG,  Freie  Universität ranks third behind the RWTH  Aachen  University and LMU  Munich.  Between 2009 and 2013, 289 foreign guest researchers came to the university through fellowships granted by the renowned  Alexander von  Humboldt  Foundation, making the FU the most popular destination for foreign researchers in  Germany.

In the field of natural sciences, research focuses on basic research with a strong emphasis on interdisciplinarity, whereas research in the humanities focuses on the current economical, political and cultural development of society (transformation processes, effects of globalization and environmental politics).  In the field of  Earth sciences, the FU has contributed to various aeronautical missions, e.g. the  Mars  Express and the  Cassini- Huygens to  Saturn.

Excluding the  Charité medical school, which is co-administered by the university with the  Humboldt  University,  Freie  Universität is currently the lead university for eight collaborative research centers of the  German  Research  Foundation and also has five DFG research units.

As part of the MATHEON –  Mathematics for  Key  Technologies research center of the DFG,  Freie  Universität together with the TU  Berlin, HU  Berlin and the  Zuse  Institute  Berlin is working on the mathematical modeling, simulation and optimization of real-world process.

Twice every year, the " Dahlem  Conferences" are held at  Freie  Universität.  Over the course of one week, international renowned scientists and  Nobel laureates come together and discuss current problems in all fields of studies.

The annual " Einstein  Lectures  Dahlem" hosted by the university and several external institutions since 2005 are dedicated to  Albert  Einstein, who was the director of the  Kaiser  Wilhelm  Institute of  Physics for more than 15 years.  It is an colloqium which presents fields in science which were influenced by  Einstein's thinking.

Freie  Universität maintains wide-ranging international contacts to top universities and organizations which provide key impulses for research and teaching.  In the 1950s, the  Freie  Universität had already established partnerships with leading universities in the  United  States such as the  University of  California  System (including  University of  California,  Berkeley,  University of  California,  Los  Angeles),  University of  Chicago,  Cornell  University,  Stanford  University (which also has a small campus within the FU ),  Duke  University,  Princeton  University,  Yale  University, and  Columbia  University, as well as with  Western  European universities like the  University of  Oxford,  University of  Cambridge,  University  College  London, and École  Normale  Supérieure in  Paris.

The university is a founding member of the global educational center for the study of transnational law, the  Centre for  Transnational  Legal  Studies in  London.  First contacts with universities in  Eastern  Europe were made in the 1970s.  In the 1990s, links were in particular extended to include growing numbers of institutions in  Canada ( Mc Gill  University,  University of  Alberta,  York  University),  Eastern  Europe, and the  Far  East ( China:  Peking  University,  Fudan  University,  Nanjing  University,  Shanghai  Jiao  Tong  University;  Japan:  University of  Tokyo,  Kyoto  University,  Nagoya  University,  Waseda  University;  South  Korea:  Korea  University,  Yonsei  University,  Seoul  National  University).  The newly established  Centre for  International  Cooperation (CIC) concentrates on identifying new strategic partners for international projects.

Today,  Freie  Universität has established over 400 partnerships in five continents, many of them as part of the  European ERASMUS program.  Every year, about 600 visiting scientists contribute to the university teaching and research.  For the grant programs in  Germany,  Freie  Universität is one of the first choices both for the ERASMUS and  Tempus as well as for the  Fulbright program and the international programs of the  German  Academic  Exchange  Service (DAAD).  An  International  Summer and  Winter  University (FU Bi S) has been set up for international students offering (semi-)intensive  German courses and numerous subject courses.

The  Freie  Universität  Berlin operates foreign branch offices in  New  York  City,  Brussels,  Moscow,  Beijing,  Cairo, and  New  Delhi.  The foreign branch offices work to expand upon cooperation partnerships already existing with universities in the country.

In  April 2005, the  Freie  Universität  Berlin, in conjunction with  Ludwig- Maximilians- Universität (LMU  Munich), opened a joint representative office in  New  York.  This  German  University  Alliance, located in  German  House, the seat of the  German  Consulate  General and the  German UN  Mission, represents the interests of the two universities in the  United  States and  Canada and works to increase the exchange of students and scientists.

In addition,  Freie  Universität  Berlin, as the first  German institution of higher education, founded an alumni- and fundraising organization, the  Friends of the  Freie  Universität  Berlin (FFUB) in  New  York.  Since 2003 this alumni- and fundraising organization has maintained close contact to alumni and scientists of the  Freie  Universität in the U.S. and attempts to gain alumni and friends as sponsors, to strengthen the long-lasting trans- Atlantic relations.  Some of the proceeds from these fundraising activities were contributed to the renovation of the  Henry  Ford  Building.

With additional branch offices in  Moscow (since 2004),  Peking, and  New  Delhi (opened in  February 2008), operated in cooperation with strong partners, large research institutions, or universities, the  Freie  Universität  Berlin is strategically extending its radius of action as an international network university.  In  April 2006  Peking  University opened its first branch in  Germany.  Its objectives include the promotion of knowledge of  Chinese culture, the cultivation of  Chinese- German cooperation, and the spread of  Chinese language.  Duke  University in  Durham,  North  Carolina, has a  Berlin program ( Duke in  Berlin), that is held in cooperation with the  Freie  Universität and  Humboldt  Universität.  The  University of  California  System organizes programs for  American students in  Berlin and  Potsdam.  At the  Freie  Universität the UC  System maintains an office to attend to the needs of the exchange students from  California.  The  Office of  Global  Programs of  Columbia  University in  New  York administrates the  Berlin  Consortium for  German  Studies.  Students from  Columbia  University and the other colleges and universities included in the consortium ( University of  Chicago,  Cornell  University,  Johns  Hopkins  University,  University of  Pennsylvania,  Princeton  University, and  Vassar  College) can attend classes at the  Freie  Universität for one or two semesters as external students.  This temporary enrollment is preceded by a six-week intensive language program.

Alumni of  Freie  Universität include many scientists, philosophers and politicians, amongst them five  Nobel  Prize winners and 15  Leibniz laureates.

The DFG has awarded the  Gottfried  Wilhelm  Leibniz  Prize to outstanding  German scientists every year since 1985.  As the most acclaimed award for research achievements in  Germany, it comes with a research grant of 2.5 million € to be used within seven years.

During its history,  Freie  Universität has awarded various people with an honorary degree, amongst them:

Freie  Universität  Berlin is consistently ranked among  Germany's top ten universities overall, with particularly strengths in the arts & humanities followed by the social sciences internationally.

In the  German " Excellence Ranking" of the CHE ( Center for  Higher  Education  Development) in 2013,  Freie  Universität ranks top in the fields of  Biology,  Chemistry,  Physics and  Political science.  In the CHE " Subject Ranking",  Freie  Universität has been evaluated as one of  Germany's best universities in  Earth sciences,  Computer science and  Philosophy and also ranks among the  Top 5 in  Psychology,  English studies and  Education.

The 2011  British QS  World  University  Rankings ranked the university at 66th internationally.  The 2011 QS WUR for law ranked the FU at 41st internationally, 12th best in  Europe and 2nd in  Germany.  In the QS WUR 2014,  Freie  Universität was placed at the 81–90 slot being the fifth  German university ranked in the list.

According to the  British  Times  Higher  Education  World  University  Rankings 2017 the FU  Berlin ranks 75th globally (including a  Top25 position for  Arts and  Humanities) and fifth in  Germany.

Because of an unresolved dispute over the  Nobel laureates before the  Second  World  War (both  Humboldt and  Freie  Universität claim to be the rightful successor of the  University of  Berlin), they do not appear in the  Academic  Ranking of  World  Universities (ARWU), anymore.  The last ARWU, also known as  Shanghai  Ranking, placed d the FU at 83th in the world in 2007.Gävle  University  College ( Swedish: Högskolan i Gävle) is a university college (högskola) located in Gävle,  Sweden.  It uses the name " University of Gävle" in  English, although it is officially a ' University  College'.  The university was established in 1977 and is currently organized into three academies and nine departments.

The university offers around 45 masters- and bachelor's degrees and 800 courses in technology, social- and natural sciences and the humanities.  The university's postgraduate education at the  Ph.D level is through the KTH research school, a collaboration between the university and the  Royal  Institute of  Technology  Stockholm.  Currently the KTH research school is directed by  Professor  Christer  Sjostrom with several professorships specializing in different subjects including geographic information systems or  Geo Informatics.  In  June 2010, the  University of Gävle was granted the right to award a  Ph D degree in the area of " Built  Environment" (" Byggd miljö") and in 2012 " Health in working life" ("Hälsofrämjande arbetsliv") 

The facilities of the campus consist of various buildings used by the  Swedish infantry since 1909.  The military stopped utilizing the buildings 1993 after which, in 1997, the university's new campus was inaugurated.  In 2006 an addition was made to the campus in form of a new library.The  German  University of  Administrative  Sciences  Speyer ( Speyer  University;  German:  Deutsche  Universität für  Verwaltungswissenschaften  Speyer, DHV; formerly known as  German  School of  Administrative  Sciences), is a national graduate school for administrative sciences and public management located in  Speyer,  Rhineland- Palatinate,  Germany.  Founded in 1947 by the  French occupational authorities as a grande école, today it is operated under the joint responsibility of both the  Federal  Republic ( Bund) and all 16  German states (Länder).  It runs four  Master's programs, grants doctoral degrees and habilitations, offers a postgraduate certificate program, and administers programs of executive education.  The school is a major training ground for  German and international senior government officials.  Noted alumni and faculty include former  President of  Germany  Roman  Herzog, former  President of the  Bundesbank  Helmut  Schlesinger, former  Attorney  General of  Germany  Alexander von  Stahl, and CEO of BASF Jürgen  Strube.

The school was founded in 1947 as École  Supérieure d' Administration by the  French occupational authorities in order to democratize the  German senior civil service.  Created as a sister institution to École  Nationale d' Administration, it was the first and only  German school to employ the  French grande école model.  In 1950 it was formally established as a  German institution of public law with legal capacity and entrusted with "fostering the administrative sciences in education and research".  In 1961 and 1970 respectively, it was bestowed with the right to grant habilitations and doctorates, thereby receiving full university status.  Since its inception, the school has had a reputation as an "elite training center".  The school is the only  German university run jointly by the  Federal  Republic ( Bund) and all 16  German states (Länder).

The university offers programs leading to a postgraduate certificate and master's degrees.  Furthermore it runs doctoral programs, and administers programs of executive education.  The language of instruction is predominantly  German, although each year a series of seminar courses offered in cooperation with  Indiana  University  School of  Public and  Environmental  Affairs is delivered in  English language.  In 2015 the cooperation expanded to include the  University of  Southern  California's  Price  School of  Public  Policy.  Master's students may earn the  European  Master of  Public  Administration diploma by studying an additional semester abroad at one of the twelve partner schools in the EMPA network.

The one-term postgraduate certificate program offers complementary studies in public management.  It is aimed at young and future government officials holding a graduate-level degree.  It resembles the first semester of the  Master of  Administrative  Sciences program.

The  Master of  Administrative  Sciences ( Magister rerum publicarum) is the school's traditional flagship program.  It is a one-year postgraduate program open to students holding an additional graduate-level degree, preferably in law, economics, history, or sociology.  Students can choose from some 100 courses that are divided into five policy areas: 1.  Public tasks,  Organization and  Proceedings, 2.  Public  Management, 3.  European and  International  Affairs, 4.  State and  Economy, and 5.  Higher  Education and  Research  Management.  The program comprises two terms at the school, an eight-week internship at  German or  European institutions, and a subsequent period of three months to write the master's thesis and pass an oral examination.  International student enrollment in this program regularly hovers around 50 percent.

The  Master of  Arts in  Administrative  Sciences is a two-year interdisciplinary program focusing on public administration in an international context.  First year students follow a core curriculum consisting of six modules on administrative, legal, economic, methodological, and strategic topics, and complete a mandatory eight-week internship.  In the second year, students choose courses from the following six optional modules: 1.  Government and  Administration, 2.  Public  Policy, 3.  Europeanization and  Internationalization of  Public  Administration, 4.  Organization and  Personnel, 5.  Funding of  Public  Services, and 6.  Competition and  Regulation in the  Infrastructure  Sector.  At the end of the second year, students complete the master's thesis.

The  Master of  Arts in  Public  Economy is a two-year program dedicated to the study of the public economic sector from an interdisciplinary perspective.  During the first year, students follow the core curriculum of the M.A. in  Administrative  Sciences.  Second-year students complete four deepening modules in  Public  Finance,  Competition and  Regulation,  Procurement, and  Public  Corporate  Governance, choose one optional module on  Public  Enterprises, or  Infrastructure, and write a master's thesis.

Both M.A. programs also offer a one-year option for students holding a previous relevant master's degree.  The  Master of  Public  Administration in  Higher  Education and  Research  Management is a two-year part-time program for professional university or research institute administrators.

The university runs doctoral programs in administrative sciences ( Doctor rerum publicarum), law ( Doctor juris), and political sciences and economy ( Doctor rerum politicarum).  Doctoral candidates are required to complete one year of coursework in residence at the school, and produce a dissertation which makes a creditable contribution to scholarship in its field.  The dissertation must be supervised by a member of the faculty.

The school's executive education provides in-service training for senior civil servants of all government levels.  The seminars, workshops and conferences deal with contemporary problems of administration, legislation, and  European affairs.  The  Speyer  Leadership  College (Führungskolleg  Speyer) is a two-year in-service program preparing senior executives holding at least the rank of a  Government  Director to assume higher positions.

Admission to the school is competitive and is limited to 25 seats per program and year for the M.A. programs, and to 60 seats for the  Master in  Administrative  Sciences program.  Formal minimum entry requirement for all degree programs is a class rank among the top third in the previous academic degree program.  Professional administrative experience is considered an asset.  For prospective international students, a language test for  German at CEFR C1 level is required.

The  German state heavily subsidizes university study to keep higher education affordable regardless of socio-economic background.  Like most  German public universities,  Speyer charges no tuition fees for academic programs, for both EU and non-EU citizens.  For the professional M.P.A. in  Higher  Education and  Research  Management program, the school charges €8,000 in tuition.  The annual housing costs for on-campus dormitories range from €1,560 to €3,240.

The university performs "fundamental research with high relevance to practice", and regularly publishes treatises on administrative, legal, political, and economic matters in the  Speyer  University  Monograph  Series ( Schriftenreihe der  Hochschule  Speyer).  With its 17 chairs dedicated to public and constitutional law, administrative sciences, economics, modern and contemporary history, sociology, and political science, the school maintains a strategic partnership with the  German  Research  Institute for  Public  Administration, which is part of the  Leibniz  Association, and is located on the campus.  It also maintains individual research cooperations with 20 universities in  Europe, the  Americas, and  Asia.  It is a member of the  European  Group of  Public  Administration (EGPA), the  Standing  Conference of  European  Public  Service  Training  Agencies (SCEPSTA), the  Transatlantic  Policy  Consortium (TPC), the  National  Association of  Schools of  Public  Affairs and  Administration (NASPAA), and the  International  Association of  Schools and  Institutes of  Administration (IASIA).

Besides numerous politicians, diplomats, professors, judges, and high-ranking government officials at local, state, federal, and international level, the university's noted alumni and faculty include  President of  Germany  Roman  Herzog;  Executive  Director of UNEP and  Under- Secretary- General of the  United  Nations  Klaus Töpfer;  Federal  Minister  Wolfgang Bötsch;  First  Mayor and  Prime  Minister of  Hamburg  Christoph  Ahlhaus; vice president of the  Federal  Constitutional  Court of  Germany  Ferdinand  Kirchhof; president of the  Bundesbank  Helmut  Schlesinger; president of the  Federal  Court of  Auditors of  Germany  Dieter  Engels;  Head of the  German  Chancellery  Waldemar  Schreckenberger; president of the  Federal  Court of  Justice of  Germany  Willi  Geiger; president of the  Federal  Employment  Agency of  Germany  Florian  Gerster;  Executive  Director of the  Bundesbank  Thilo  Sarrazin;  Attorney  General of  Germany  Alexander von  Stahl;  Advocate  General at the  European  Court of  Justice  Carl  Otto  Lenz; former CEO and current  Chairman of BASF Jürgen  Strube; and former CEO of  Allianz  Global  Investors and current  Chairman of the  Deutsche Börse  Group  Joachim  Faber.Gjøvik  University  College was established 1  August 1994 in the town of  Gjøvik when two governmental colleges  Gjøvik  College of  Engineering and  Oppland  College of  Nursing were combined as part of the a large reform of  Norway's colleges.  In 2007,  Gjøvik  University  College took over BI  Norwegian  Business  School's operations in the region.

It has approximately 2800 students and 280 employees.  The  University  College is led by an executive board, and its rector, deans and section heads are hired, as opposed to elected.  The institution has three faculties:

Gjøvik  University  College is a research-intensive university college.  It is seeking to focus all its activities, research and education on some of  Norway's most pressing challenges:

Gjøvik  University  College offers a number of study programs in the areas of  Health,  Computer  Science,  Engineering,  Media  Technologies, and  Business  Management.  Most areas are offered at both  Bachelor and  Master levels, some also on  Ph D level.  There are also a number of shorter programs and offers for continued education

The  University  College has introduced value creation (including innovation, entrepreneurship and quality-increasing processes) as a component in all its study programs.  In addition, it offers a separate bachelor program in  Media  Management and  Innovation.  The  Innovatorion is the college's interdisciplinary idea lab, a workshop for the development of ideas and projects where students, researchers and external companies collaborate on projects, mock businesses and real businesses.  Participation in a 24-hour ideas competition " Idélab-24" is mandatory for all students.

The  University  College offers research education in all its faculties.  All master's programs offer paths to doctoral programs, either to one of the college's own programs or in collaboration with other universities.  The college has its own  Ph D programs in computer science and in information security.  The college is also a member of several  Graduate  Schools, including the  Norwegian  Research  School in  Technology and the  European  Graduate  School in  Technology ( Eu Tec).  The research schools integrate the research education resources of their members, in essence offering their  Ph D students free flow of services like courses, supervision and industry collaboration.

Gjøvik  University  College is internationally oriented, with employees of 21 nationalities.  Most of the masters programs are offered in  English.  The students can choose several paths towards a high level of internationalization, for instance taking part of their education in a partner institution abroad, or continue the study at a partner university abroad after finishing a degree at  Gjøvik.

Gjøvik  University  College is a research-intensive university college.  For a number of years it has had the highest result-based research funding per employee of the university colleges, and has secured 48% of EU's research funds going to the university colleges in  Norway .  It has  Ph D programs in  Computer  Science and  Information  Security.  The  University  College has a number of research labs, some of them unique in  Scandinavia, including:

The university colleges in  Norway represent a broad range in areas of foci and level of research intensity.  By  Norwegian law, an academic institution needs four accredited  Ph D programs to apply for accreditation as a university.Halmstad  University or  Halmstad  University  College ( Swedish: Högskolan i  Halmstad) is a  University college ( Swedish: högskola) in  Halmstad,  Sweden.  It was established in 1983.  Halmstad  University is a public higher education institution offering bachelor's and master's programmes in various fields of studies.  In addition, it conducts  Ph.D. programmes in three fields of research, namely,  Information  Technology,  Innovation  Science and  Health  Science.

Halmstad  University has 9,126 students, 50 professors and 102 research students (numbers from 2015).  The study programmes and courses cover 41 degree programmes and 128 single subject courses.  The university conducts doctoral programmes in  Information  Technology,  Innovation  Science and  Health  Science.

Halmstad university actively takes part in society and community development projects through an extensive programme of cooperative ventures involving the business and public sectors.  In 2013, the university adopted a profile which is summed up in the following vision statement: " Halmstad  University prepares people for the future by creating values, driving innovation and developing society."

Halmstad  University's educational profile is made up of three interwoven areas of strength which can be summarised as the development and study of organisations, products and quality of life.  This is based on the three main research areas of the university:  Innovation  Science,  Information  Technology and  Health  Science.

Halmstad university is organised into the following 4 schools (called "academies" in  Swedish):

The research at  Halmstad university is organised into the following 6 research centres:Harstad  University  College ( Norwegian: Høgskolen i  Harstad or  Hi H) is a høgskole, a  Norwegian state institution of higher education, in the city of  Harstad in  Troms county,  Norway.

It was originally established on 28  October 1983.  The present organization was established on 1  August 1994 as a result of the merging of three regional høgskoler.  Harstad  University  College has about 1300 students and 120 employees (in 2012).

Harstad  University  College is divided into two departments, the  Business  Administration and  Social  Sciences  Department, and the  Health and  Social  Care  Department.Stord/ Haugesund  University  College (HSH),  Norwegian: Høgskolen  Stord/ Haugesund) is a medium sized state university college in  Norway, with around 2700 students and 260 employees.  The university college offers bachelor and master degrees in various fields (including information and communication technology, safety management, health sciences, and marine studies) and courses for professionals.  The university college also has several  Ph D students working in various disciplines.  The institution does not have the power to award doctoral degrees which must be awarded by an external institution.

The university college was established in 1994 when the  Norwegian college system was restructured and  Haugesund  Sjukepleierhøgskole ( Haugesund  Nursing  College),  Stord Lærarhøgskule ( Stord  Teachers  College) and  Stord  Sjukepleiarhøgskule ( Stord  Nursing  College) merged.  As a result, there are now campuses both in  Haugesund and on  Stord.  The largest campus is located in  Haugesund however as the administration is based in  Stord, the  Stord campus appears first in the name of the institution.

While HSH was formed fairly recently, the history of the founding institutions dates back to 1839 when teachers were educated on  Stord. HSH in  Haugesund dates back to 1985, when maritime education was offered.  The development of HSH continues.  Since 2008, HSH has been a partner in UH-nett  Vest ( Universitets- og høgskolenettet på  Vestlandet).  This organisation attempts to foster greater cooperation between the participating institutions.

As well as teaching, HSH also has a significant research output.  In 2008, HSH recorded 53 publication points, a 49% increase on 2007.Hedmark  University of  Applied  Sciences ( Norwegian: Høgskolen i  Hedmark or  Hi Hm) is a høgskole, a  Norwegian state institution of higher education, in the county of  Hedmark,  Norway.  The college's four campuses are located in  Hamar,  Elverum, Åmot ( Rena) and  Stor- Elvdal.  It was established  August 1, 1994, and has approximately 5250 students and 450 employees.

The university is divided into four faculties: the  Faculty of  Health and  Sports, the  Faculty of  Education and  Natural  Sciences  Design, the  Faculty of  Forestry and  Wildlife  Management, and the  Faculty of  Business  Administration,  Social  Sciences and  Computer  Science.The  Helmut  Schmidt  University ( German:  Helmut- Schmidt- Universität), located in  Hamburg,  Germany, is a  German military educational establishment that was founded in 1973 at the initiative of the then- Federal  Minister of  Defence,  Helmut  Schmidt.  Originally known as the " University of the  Bundeswehr  Hamburg" ( Universität der  Bundeswehr), its complete official name today is " Helmut- Schmidt- Universität/ Universität der  Bundeswehr  Hamburg".  Teaching first started in  Autumn of 1973.  It is one of two universities that were established by the  Bundeswehr to train and educate its future and existing officers.

In general, it is accessible only to officers and officer candidates of the  Bundeswehr, hence its original name.  However, since it started teaching, there have been cooperation agreements with allied countries, on the basis of which a handful of selected officers from these states have been able to study in  Hamburg.

Since 2002 there has been a small number of civilian students at the university. A prerequisite for studying as a civilian at the  Helmut  Schmidt  University is a business scholarship.  These scholarships are usually awarded by foundations with close relationships to industry – thus, these students are at least indirectly being supported by their future employer, usually large companies.  As of 2011 training costs are currently 6000 euros (humanities), 8000 euros (economics) or 10000 euros (engineering) per academic year.

Academic degrees and titles obtained at HSU are equivalent to those awarded by state universities and are equally valid, since the courses comply with the requirements of  Hamburg's higher education legislation.  The university is authorised to confer habilitations and doctoral degrees.

On  June 11, 1970, the  Federal  Minister of  Defense at the time,  Helmut  Schmidt, for whom the university was later named and who later would become chancellor of  Germany, published a decree that a university be established for the purpose of schooling certain members of the  German  Federal  Armed  Forces.  On 17  May 1971 the decree, passed a year earlier by  Schmidt, was appraised.

The  German  Federal  Armed  Forces agreed 29  June 1972 to collaborate with  Schmidt's ideas for the university.  The agreement was finalised 3  October 1972 and legally concluded.

The first classes of students began schooling on 1  October 1973 and the first graduate left the university on 30  September 1976.

Since the beginning of the university in 1973, there have been eight presidents of the institution, including the current president,  Professor  Wilfried  Seidel, who has been in office since 2010.

It was in the  December 2003 that the  University of the  German  Federal  Armed  Forces  Hamburg was rechristened " Helmut  Schmidt  University /  University of the  German  Federal  Armed  Forces  Hamburg" to honour the man who passed the decree for the university's establishment.  The idea of a university is his brainchild.  Schmidt was present at the ceremony and was awarded an honorary degree.

At the  Helmut  Schmidt  University there is a specific organizational structure, in addition to the division between the areas of teaching and administration that is common to all universities.  This is due to the HSU's dual function as an educational establishment and a military authority for the students.

The academic division takes care of teaching and research, to which end it maintains 4 faculties.  The number of departments was designed so as to allow for intensive study through teaching in small groups, and for the pursuing of research at the same time.

The personal guidance, training and education of the studying officers and officer candidates is the responsibility of the " Studentenbereich" (SB) or " Student  Division".  The  Studentenbereich is headed by an officer of the rank of  Colonel or  Captain at  Sea.  Apart from headquarters staff, he oversees 3 " Studentenfachbereiche" (SFB) or " Student  Department".  These are headed by a  Lieutenant  Colonel or  Commander.

Usually sorted by year, one  Student  Department currently has 6 (SFB A and B) or 8 (C) " Studentenfachbereichsgruppen" (SFBG) or  Student  Department  Groups, headed by an army  Captain or a naval  Captain  Lieutenant.  In the course of the reforms of army training and the correspondingly higher student numbers in 2007 and 2008, 2 more group leaders per  Student  Department were added for the period 2007-2011, which meant an increase from 4 to 6, or 6 to 8 for SFB C.  The staff-student ratio is currently at around 140 to 180 studying officers and officer candidates per group leader.  Apart from the administrative management of the soldiers, the  Student  Division takes care of military training and advanced education so as to maintain the necessary educational level.

If compared with a normal military unit, the  Student  Division would be equivalent to a regiment, the  Departments to a battalion and the  Groups to companies.

The academic year at the HSU usually begins on 1  October.  The officers and officer candidates are generally posted to the university a week before that date.  An orientation week takes place first, during which the students may settle into their accommodation and receive an introduction to studying at the HSU from the more advanced students.

In contrast to the semester format usually practised in  Germany, a year at the HSU is divided into 3 terms (trimesters) which means that it consists not of a winter and summer semester, but of autumn, winter and spring terms, 3 blocks of 3 months each.  There are no classes in the summer quarter (1  July – 30  September).  This period may be used for performing required periods of practical training and internships, and for holidays.

Exams are taken at the end of every term, and test the material that was studied in that term.  In a few cases, exams at the end of a term may concern the material of more than one term.  For the purpose of revision, one or two weeks in mid- December, late  March and late  June may be devoid of classes.

Due to the short length of revision time and the fact that all the exams are "en bloc", resits are greatly feared by the students, particularly the engineering students.  Resit exams occur during the exam block of the next term, and in this way a "bow wave" of an ever-increasing number of exams to take can accumulate, which may be very difficult to remain on top of.

The standard period of study for the master's degree (the standard degree) is 4 years. A  Bachelor's degree can be obtained in 3 years.  The maximum period of study is 4 years, which means that one's  Master's thesis must be submitted on 30  September of the 4th year of study at the latest.  The study period may only be extended over 4 years with the permission of the  Personnel  Office of the  Bundeswehr, and even then, one requires a certificate from the university stating that the student is likely to successfully complete his or her studies in the near future.

After completion of one's studies, that is after one has submitted one's final dissertation, the officer will return to a post in the army or the fleet relatively quickly, according to availability of vacant posts, the officer's leave entitlement and course plans.  The award of the study diplomas always occurs in mid- October in a formal ceremony.  As part of the graduation ceremony, the Böttcher- Preis, founded by the  Hamburg businessman  Johann  Max Böttcher, is awarded to the highest-performing students of each year.  Some alumni officers will return to their alma mater as researchers or doctoral students.

The maintains some central facilities.  These include the computer centre, the language centre, the media centre, and the  Centre for  Technology- Assisted  Education ( Zentrum für technologiegestützte  Bildung: ZTB). A further facility is the library of the HSU.  According to the library ranking list " Bibliotheksindex" (BIX), it has been amongst the best libraries in  Germany for years.  The library primarily exists to support the teaching and research of the HSU, but is also accessible to the general public.

In  Mechanical  Engineering, one of the areas of research is in automotive engineering. 7 professorships work on projects in this area, including:  Acoustics,  Propulsion,  Computer-aided engineering,  Chassis,  Production engineering, and  Simulators.

For example, a hybrid drive unit is being researched for industrial trucks in cooperation with industry.

In  Electrical  Engineering, one of the areas of research is telecommunications, which includes:  Audio coding,  Wireless transmission systems, and  Video recognition systems.

In educational sciences, the focus is on the areas of professional and organizational education, adult education and history.  The establishment of a uniform  German  Qualifications  Framework in the context of the  European  Qualifications  Framework may be traced back in no small part to the work of the professor for professional and organizational education in the working group of the  Federal  Ministry for  Education and  Research, through expert advice and support.

In economic and management sciences, the emphasis is on logistics, business administration and economics, and political science.  Gender topics have also been researched for years.

The HSU is designed as a campus university, and its campus in the  Wandsbek district consists of 3 parts.  Studying activities take place on the premises of the former  Douaumont barracks on the  Holstenhofweg in  Hamburg- Jenfeld.  The university administration is located here, as well as all departments and faculties, lecture theatres and laboratories and central facilities; it also contains sports facilities, the canteen and the management of the  Student  Division.  Students of  Engineering are accommodated here in 10 quite modern-looking residential buildings.  South of the BAB 24, on the premised of the former  Hanseatic barracks in the  Stoltenstraße in  Horn, is the accommodation for students of humanities and social sciences, and economics, and the medical facility. A third residence, rapidly constructed, is located since 2007 on the  Jenfelder  Allee and will be used until 2010.  In addition, from 2007 to 2010, flats will be rented on the private market, in order to absorb the overload of students, which is due to the unusually well-attended years of 2007 and 2008.  In the private flats, 2 to 3 students will be accommodated together.  In principle, every student receives a single room with area of 14 to 20 m2 (151 to 215 sq ft), mostly with en-suite bathroom and toilet.  During the time of higher than usual student numbers however, there will invitably be some instances where 2 students share a larger room.  Residents may cook in the shared kitchens, where the social life between studies and the  Hamburg night life will take place.  Due to structural changes in military training, several external residences had to be acquired including the former  Lettow- Vorbeck  Barracks, which is now used by the  Federal  Police ( Bundespolizei).  Another facility frequented by students and staff is the casino, the officer's club of the HSU (not a gambling establishment), located opposite the campus.

Whilst studying, the soldiers are paid according to their rank and length of service, sometimes including a residence allowance and a family allowance.  They pay a fixed fee for their accommodation, which is waived if the student takes up a private residence.

Due to the quite strict study plan, compared with public universities, it is often not easy for students to pursue leisure activities.  In the course of the years, however, many different clubs and societies have been formed, to enable leisure activities without clashing with study obligations.

One large event in the academic year is the "TAF (" Trimesteranfangsfeier" or " Start of term ceremony").  This takes place annually to greet the new students.  It is organized by the members of the " Studentischer  Konvent" and enjoys widespread popularity.  The  Studentischer  Konvent is the students' representation at the HSU.  The offers first-term students a possibility to get to know each other, and more advanced students the possibility to swap tales from their holidays.

Further events are organized in the faculties.  These include:

There are several conditions of enrollment which are strictly observed at the university.

In general, studying at the HSU entails a mandatory service of 12 years as an officer in the  Bundeswehr.  Since 2008, that time has been increased to 13 years, in response to changes in the education caused by the introduction of the  Bachelor/ Master system.  To join the officer corps, a 3-day selection process must be successfully completed at the officer candidates selection centre in Köln- Porz at the  Mudra barracks.  Depending on which service branch and which specialty one chooses, one will complete the requisite military training with that unit, before being posted to the university and completing the academic education there, which is a part of the training for becoming an officer.

The educational requirement for attending the HSU is a general higher education entrance qualification that is recognized by the law on higher education of the  Free and  Hanseatic  City of  Hamburg.

Prior to their studies, soldiers must train at one of the three respective  Officer  Training school: for the  Army in  Dresden /('OSH'), for the  Air  Force in Fürstenfeldbruck ('OS Lw') and for the  Navy in  Flensburg ('MSM').

During their stay at the HSU, military personnel are required to complete certain standard procedures every year.  These include:Witten/ Herdecke  University (UW/H) is a private, state-recognized non-profit university in  Witten,  North  Rhine- Westphalia,  Germany.  It was the first  German private institution of higher education to receive accreditation as a " Universität", a status recognizing the university's academic quality equivalent to state-run universities and granting the right to award next to bachelor's and master's degrees doctorates and the  German  Habilitation.

Its foundation and history has been marked by often controversial debates and significant difficulties to establish the new university in the  German educational system.  In 1995  Times  Higher  Education noted that the university was considered by some "an idealistic model for the future of  German higher education and [by] others ... a carbuncle on the country's fiercely state-dominated university landscape".  Today  Witten/ Herdecke  University has succeeded to be recognized as one of  Germany's few private universities considered ' Humboldtian' and as a role model in terms of course structures, integration of practical and theoretical training and innovative approaches to payment of tuition fees.

In 2015 2107 students are enrolled at the  University of  Witten/ Herdecke and it has a staff of 524 people, including faculty of 59 professors and 207 lecturers/researchers.  About 100  Ph D candidates receive a  Ph D degree each year from the (post)graduate  School.  There are also more  Master students than  Bachelor students, showing the university's strength in graduate education.  The university is currently enlarging its campus and extending the number of students.

In accordance with its mission statement, the  University of  Witten/ Herdecke strives for innovation and academic excellence by developing and testing new forms of teaching and learning, finding novel approaches in research, and exploring innovative paths in university organization.  Furthermore, the university encourages its students to take on social responsibility and considers civic engagement as the “third mission” in addition to research and student education.

Rankings by major  German  Newspapers such as  Die  Zeit,  Der  Spiegel,  Frankfurter  Allgemeine  Zeitung as well as the CHE  University  Ranking, the so-called "most comprehensive ranking" for  German  Universities, acknowledge the excellent study conditions as well as very good career prospects for students from  Witten/ Herdecke  University.  Especially the  College of  Medicine, offering hands-on experience in one of the 12 university hospitals, and the  Business  School, offering a combination of  Business and  Economics as well as a joint bachelor and master program in " Philosophy,  Politics and  Economy" with the  College of  Humanities, are frequently ranked among the top 10 in  Germany.  In the CHE 2012 report the university's programmes in  Economics,  Dental  Medicine and  Human  Medicine have received top rankings in student's and graduates satisfaction.

1982:  Recognition by the  Federal  Government as  Germany's first private university.  Early supporter of the university include  Alfred  Herrhausen,  Gerd  Bucerius,  Reinhard  Mohn and the  Bertelsmann  Foundation.

1984:  The degree programmes in economics and dental medicine are established

1990:  The  German  Council of  Science and  Humanities reviews the university and grants it public funding support for buildings.

1993:  The  Institute of  Fundamental  Studies receives  Faculty status.  It will be become a core element of the  Witten/ Herdecke identity as every student regardless of his subject has to take courses offered by the faculty, thereby gaining interdisciplinary skills and reflexive capacities.

1995:  Students of the  University found the  Studierenden Gesellschaft  Witten/ Herdecke, a student association which introduces and until today operates an innovative inverted generational-contract payment model for student fees.  The model avoids social selection in the admission process by enabeling students to repaying their tuition according to their own financial capacities after they have embarked on their professional careers.

1996:  The status of  Witten/ Herdecke  University as a model university is underlined by a second review through the  German  Council of  Science and  Humanities.  The state government follows recommendations to subsidize  Witten/ Herdecke  University with public funds and the university establishes a degree programme in  Nursing  Science, the first of its kind in  Germany.

2001:  The  University of  Witten/ Herdecke is accepted as a member of the  German  Rectors'  Conference.

2005:  The  University converts all of its diploma programmes to bachelor/master programmes, accredited by the summer term of 2005.

2006:  The  University is urged to undergo a notable expansion of research and teaching at the  Faculty of  Medicine.  In  July 2006 the  German  Council of  Science and  Humanities approves the revised concept of the medical curriculum.

2007-2009:  Witten/ Herdecke hosts the  Witten  Lectures in  Economics and  Philosophy, with the purpose of "fostering philosophical reflection upon and proposing solutions to major economic and political issues".  The series brings laureates of the  Nobel  Memorial  Prize in  Economic  Sciences such as  Kenneth  Arrow,  Thomas  Schelling, and  George  Akerlof to  Germany's first private university.

2008:  The university undergoes its most severe crisis since its foundation.  Internal problems, the general economic crisis, loss of major sponsors and withdrawal of public funds culminate in a threat of insolvency.  In  December 2009 the  State  Ministry of  Innovation,  Science,  Research and  Technology announces its intention to withdraw funding.  Students and professors of the university protest outside the state parliament in Düsseldorf.

2009:  Major internal restructuring efforts and a new shareholder agreement with new partners secure the financial stability of the university and its academic development.

2010:  Implementation of new degree programmes:  The interdisciplinary  Bachelor programme " Philosophy,  Politics and  Economics (B.A.)" and the  Master programme " Family  Business  Management (M. Sc.)".

2011:  The  German  Council of  Science and  Humanities reaccredits  Witten/ Herdecke  University for a further 7-year period in response to extensive revisions since 2005/06.

There are further departments and institutes.The  Humboldt  University of  Berlin ( German:  Humboldt- Universität zu  Berlin, HU  Berlin) is one of  Berlin's oldest universities, founded on 15  October 1811 as the  University of  Berlin ( Universität zu  Berlin) by the liberal  Prussian educational reformer and linguist  Wilhelm von  Humboldt.  The  Humboldt university model has strongly influenced other  European and  Western universities.

From 1828 it was known as the  Friedrich- Wilhelms- Universität, and later (unofficially) also as the  Universität unter den  Linden after its location in the former palace of  Prince  Henry of  Prussia (1726–1802) which his brother,  King  Frederick II, had built for him between 1748 and 1753 on the avenue  Unter den  Linden.

In 1949, it changed its name to  Humboldt- Universität in honour of both its founder  Wilhelm and his brother, geographer  Alexander von  Humboldt.  In 2012, the  Humboldt  University of  Berlin was one of eleven  German universities to win in the  German  Universities  Excellence  Initiative, a national competition for universities organized by the  German  Federal  Government.  The university has educated 29  Nobel  Prize winners and is considered one of the prestigious universities in  Europe as well as one of the most prestigious universities in the world for arts and humanities.

The first semester at the newly founded  Berlin university occurred in 1810 with 256 students and 52 lecturers in faculties of law, medicine, theology and philosophy under rector  Theodor  Schmalz.  The university has been home to many of  Germany's greatest thinkers of the past two centuries, among them the subjective idealist philosopher  Johann  Gottlieb  Fichte, the theologian  Friedrich  Schleiermacher, the absolute idealist philosopher G.W.F.  Hegel, the  Romantic legal theorist  Friedrich  Carl von  Savigny, the pessimist philosopher  Arthur  Schopenhauer, the objective idealist philosopher  Friedrich  Schelling, cultural critic  Walter  Benjamin, and famous physicists  Albert  Einstein and  Max  Planck.

The founders of  Marxist theory  Karl  Marx and  Friedrich  Engels attended the university, as did poet  Heinrich  Heine, novelist  Alfred Döblin, founder of structuralism  Ferdinand de  Saussure,  German unifier  Otto von  Bismarck,  Communist  Party of  Germany founder  Karl  Liebknecht,  African  American  Pan  Africanist W. E. B.  Du  Bois and  European unifier  Robert  Schuman, as well as the influential surgeon  Johann  Friedrich  Dieffenbach in the early half of the 1800s.

The structure of  German research-intensive universities, such as  Humboldt, served as a model for institutions like  Johns  Hopkins  University.  Further, it has been claimed that "the ' Humboldtian' university became a model for the rest of  Europe [...] with its central principle being the union of teaching and research in the work of the individual scholar or scientist."

In addition to the strong anchoring of traditional subjects, such as science, law, philosophy, history, theology and medicine,  Berlin  University developed to encompass numerous new scientific disciplines.  Alexander von  Humboldt, brother of the founder  William, promoted the new learning.  With the construction of modern research facilities in the second half of the 19th  Century teaching of the natural sciences began.  Famous researchers, such as the chemist  August  Wilhelm  Hofmann, the physicist  Hermann von  Helmholtz, the mathematicians  Ernst  Eduard  Kummer,  Leopold  Kronecker,  Karl  Weierstrass, the physicians  Johannes  Peter Müller,  Albrecht von  Graefe,  Rudolf  Virchow and  Robert  Koch, contributed to  Berlin  University's scientific fame.

During this period of enlargement,  Berlin  University gradually expanded to incorporate other previously separate colleges in  Berlin.  An example would be the  Charité, the Pépinière and the  Collegium  Medico-chirurgicum.  In 1717,  King  Friedrich I had built a quarantine house for  Plague at the city gates, which in 1727 was rechristened by the "soldier king"  Friedrich  Wilhelm: " Es soll das  Haus die  Charité heißen" ( It will be called  Charité [ French for charity]).  By 1829 the site became  Berlin  University's medical campus and remained so until 1927 when the more modern  University  Hospital was constructed.

Berlin  University started a natural history collection in 1810, which, by 1889 required a separate building and became the  Museum für  Naturkunde.  The preexisting  Tierarznei  School, founded in 1790 and absorbed by the university, in 1934 formed the basis of the  Veterinary  Medicine  Facility ( Grundstock der  Veterinärmedizinischen  Fakultät).  Also the  Landwirtschaftliche  Hochschule  Berlin ( Agricultural  University of  Berlin), founded in 1881 was affiliated with the  Agricultural  Faculties of the  University.

After 1933, like all  German universities, it was affected by the  Nazi regime.  The rector during this period was  Eugen  Fischer.  It was from the university's library that some 20,000 books by "degenerates" and opponents of the regime were taken to be burned on  May 10 of that year in the  Opernplatz (now the  Bebelplatz) for a demonstration protected by the SA that also featured a speech by  Joseph  Goebbels. A monument to this can now be found in the center of the square, consisting of a glass panel opening onto an underground white room with empty shelf space for 20,000 volumes and a plaque, bearing an epigraph from an 1820 work by  Heinrich  Heine: " Das war ein  Vorspiel nur, dort wo man Bücher verbrennt, verbrennt man am  Ende auch  Menschen" (" This was but a prelude; where they burn books, they ultimately burn people").

The  Law for the  Restoration of the  Professional  Civil  Service ( German " Gesetz zur  Wiederherstellung des  Berufsbeamtentums") resulted in 250  Jewish professors and employees being fired during 1933/1934 and numerous doctorates being withdrawn.  Students and scholars and political opponents of  Nazis were ejected from the university and often deported.  During this time nearly one third of all of the staff were fired by the  Nazis.

The  Soviet  Military  Administration in  Germany (SMAD) ordered ( Befehl- Nr. 4) the opening of the university in  January 1946.  The SMAD wanted a redesigned  Berlin  University based on the  Soviet model, however they insisted on the phrasing "newly opened" and not "re-opened" for political reasons.  The president of the  German  Central  Administration for  National  Education (DZVV),  Paul  Wandel, in his address at the  January 29, 1946, opening ceremony, said: "I spoke of the opening, and not of the re-opening of the university. [...]  The  University of  Berlin must effectively start again in almost every way.  You have before you this image of the old university.  What remains of that is nought but ruins."  The teaching was limited to seven departments working in reopened, war-damaged buildings, with many of the teachers dead or missing.  However, by the winter semester of 1946, the  Economic and  Educational  Sciences  Faculty had re-opened.

The  Workers and  Peasants  Faculty ( German:  Arbeiter-und- Bauern- Fakultät) (ABF), an education program aimed at young men who, due to political or racial reasons, had been disadvantaged under the  Nazis, was established at the university during this time.  This program existed at  Berlin  University until 1962.

The  East- West conflict in post-war  Germany led to a growing communist influence in the university.  This was controversial, and incited strong protests within the student body and faculty.  Soviet NKVD secret police arrested a number of students in  March 1947 as a response.  The  Soviet  Military  Tribunal in  Berlin- Lichtenberg ruled the students were involved in the formation of a "resistance movement at the  University of  Berlin", as well as espionage, and were sentenced to 25 years of forced labor.  From 1945 to 1948, 18 other students and teachers were arrested or abducted, many gone for weeks, and some taken to the  Soviet  Union and executed.

In the spring of 1948, after several university students with admission irregularities were withdrawn, the opposition demanded a "free" university.  Students and scholars, with support from especially the  Americans, the newspaper  Der  Tagesspiegel, and the governing  Mayor  Ernst  Reuter founded the  Free  University of  Berlin in  Dahlem (part of the  American sector).  The decades-long division of the city into  East and  West  Berlin finally cemented the division into two independent universities permanently.

Since the old name of the university had some monarchic origins the university was renamed.  Although the  Soviets and the government of  East  Berlin preferred a naming after some communist leader the university was in the end named after the two  Humboldt brothers.  Independent research and teaching was not longer possible; instead the academic staff was replaced by communists to get the education system in line with the ruling ideology.  Nevertheless, it was still possible in some areas to restore international contacts and create world-wide cooperation.  The long-standing and intensive research and exchange links with the universities in  Eastern  Europe and particularly in the former  Soviet  Union are worth special mentioning; many of these links are without parallel in  Germany.  In addition, formal academic cooperation with nearly all universities in the capital cities of  Western  Europe has existed since the 1970s.  And for several years there have been close relations to universities in  Japan and the  United  States, as well as in  Asian,  African and  Latin  American countries.  Until the collapse of the  East  German regime in 1989,  Humboldt  University remained under tight ideological control of the  Sozialistische  Einheitspartei  Deutschlands ( Socialist  Unity  Party of  Germany), or SED, which, by rigorously selecting students according to their conformity to the party line, made sure that no democratic opposition could grow on its university campuses.  Its communist-selected students and scholars did not participate to any significant degree in the  East  German democratic civil rights movements of 1989, and elected the controversial SED member and former  Stasi spy  Heinrich  Fink as the  Rector of the university as late as 1990.

After the unification of  East and  West  Germany, the university was radically restructured and all professors had to reapply for their positions.  The faculty was largely replaced with  West  German professors, among them the historian  Heinrich  August  Winkler.  Today,  Humboldt  University is a state university with a large number of students (36,986 in 2014, among them more than 4,662 foreign students) after the model of  West  German universities, and like its counterpart the  Free  University of  Berlin.

The university consists of three different campuses namely  Campus  Mitte,  Campus  Nord and  Campus  Adlershof.  Its main building is located in the centre of  Berlin at the boulevard  Unter den  Linden and is the heart of  Campus  Mitte.  The building was erected on order by  King  Frederick II for his younger brother  Prince  Henry of  Prussia.  All the institutes of humanities are located around the main building together with the  Department of  Law and the  Department of  Business and  Economics.  Campus  Nord is located north of the main building close to  Berlin  Hauptbahnhof and is the home of the life science departments including the university medical center  Charité.  The natural science together with computer science and mathematics are located at  Campus  Adlershof in the south-east of  Berlin.  Furthermore, the university continues its tradition of a book sale at the university gates facing  Bebelplatz.

These are the nine faculties into which the university is divided:

Furthermore, there are two independent institutes ( Zentralinstitute) that are part of the university:

When the  Royal  Library proved insufficient, a new library was founded in 1831, first located in several temporary sites.  In 1871–1874 a library building was constructed, following the design of architect  Paul  Emanuel  Spieker.  In 1910 the collection was relocated to the building of the  Berlin  State  Library.

During the  Weimar  Period the library contained 831,934 volumes (1930) and was thus one of the leading university libraries in  Germany at that time.

During the  Nazi book burnings in 1933, no volumes from the university library were destroyed.  Also, the loss through  World  War II was comparatively small.  In 2003, natural science related books were outhoused to the newly founded library at the  Adlershof campus, which is dedicated solely to the natural sciences.

Since the premises of the  State  Library had to be cleared in 2005, a new library building is about to be erected close to the main building in the center of  Berlin.  The " Jacob und  Wilhelm  Grimm- Zentrum" ( Jacob and  Wilhelm  Grimm  Centre) opened in 2009.

In total, the university library contains about 6.5 million volumes and 9000 held magazines and journals and is one of the biggest university libraries in  Germany.

The books of the  Institut für  Sexualwissenschaft were destroyed during the  Nazi book burnings and the institute destroyed.  Under the terms of the  Magnus  Hirschfeld  Foundation, the government had undertaken to continue the work of the institute at the university after its founder's death.  However these terms were ignored.  In 2001 however the university acquired the  Archive for  Sexology from the  Robert  Koch  Institute, which was founded on a large private library donated by  Erwin J.  Haeberle.  This has now been housed at the new  Magnus  Hirschfeld  Center.

There are 29  Nobel  Prize winners affiliated with the  Humboldt  University:

In 2016 the  British QS  World  University  Rankings ranked  Humboldt  University 126th overall in the world.  Its subject rankings were: 27th in  Arts &  Humanities and 14th in  Philosophy.

The  British  Times  Higher  Education  World  University  Ranking 2016 listed  Humboldt- University as the 49th best university in the world and 3rd best in  Germany.Jacobs  University  Bremen (previously  International  University  Bremen, IUB) is an international, private residential university in  Vegesack in  Bremen- Nord,  Bremen,  Germany.

Jacobs  University is an  English-speaking higher education institution and combines aspects from the  American and  German academic systems.  The exact grading system follows the  German one (from 1 the highest to 5 the lowest), and the study length is also 3 years as other  German public and private universities.

In the hope of transforming  Bremen from a traditional harbor and shipyard business location into one of  Germany’s leading science locations, the city’s senate decided to convert the  Roland  Barracks in  North  Bremen, a military logistics academy until the middle of the 1990s, into a scientific institution.  In  November 1997, a first exchange of ideas takes place between representatives of the  City  State of  Bremen,  Bremen  University and  Rice  University,  Houston,  Texas.  The result: a recommendation to set up an international and highly selective private research university with a focus on science and engineering and  English as the language of instruction.  In  August 2001 the first 131 undergraduate students from 43 nations as well as 26 faculty members arrive on campus.  Later, they are joined by the university’s first 2  Ph D students. IUB is officially opened on  Sept. 20, 2001, with former  German  Chancellor  Helmut  Schmidt as keynote speaker.

IUB, which then offers 14 study programs in engineering, the natural and social sciences as well as the humanities, becomes the first private university in  Germany to be accredited by the  German  Council of  Science and  Humanities ( Wissenschaftsrat).  In  November 2006 IUB receives a 200- Mio- Euro donation from the  Jacobs  Foundation.  It is the largest private donation ever bestowed onto a scientific institution in  Europe and marks a major turning point in the university’s development.  In honor of the  Jacobs  Foundation’s remarkable donation IUB changes its name to  Jacobs  University  Bremen in  February 2007.

1999  State approval by the  Free  Hanseatic  City of  Bremen

2001  Accreditation by the  German  Council of  Sciences and  Humanities

2004  Accreditation of all undergraduate programs by the  German  Accreditation  Council (ACQUIN)

2008  Re-accreditation by the  German  Council of  Sciences and  Humanities

2010  Confirmation of the state approval by the  Free  Hanseatic  City of  Bremen

2006  Jacobs gains an investment of €200 million by the  Jacobs  Foundation, at the time the largest donation in  Europe ever made by a private foundation to a university.

2008  Jacobs  University receives its distinction as  Selected  Landmark in the innovation contest »365  Landmarks in the  Land of  Ideas« in the field of »science«.  The  Land of  Ideas initiative rewards ideas and projects that make a lasting contribution to  Germany.

Official opening of the  Bremen  International  Graduate  School of  Social  Sciences (BIGSSS), a joint » Exzellenzinitiative« project by  Jacobs  University and the  University of  Bremen federally sponsored with €5.6 million.

Jacobs  University's professor  Katja  Windt is awarded the  Alfried  Krupp  Prize, a scholarship for  Young  Professors endowed with €1 million.  She is also named » Professor of the year« by the  German  Association of  University  Professors and  Lecturers.

2009  Jacobs  University's professor  Antje  Boetius is honored with the  Gottfried  Wilhelm  Leibniz  Prize 2009,  Germany’s most renowned research award by the  Deutsche  Forschungsgemeinschaft endowed with €2.5 million.

2010  Jacobs  University's professor  Thomas  Heine obtains the  Starting  Independent  Researcher  Grant by the  European  Research  Council endowed with €1.5 million; the application process is highly competitive: only about 10% to 15% of all proposals are successful.

Jacobs  University's spin-off  Phytolutions  Gmb H receives its distinction as  Selected  Landmark in the »365  Landmarks in the  Land of  Ideas« contest in the field of »environment«.

2011  Jacobs  University's deep-sea crawler  Wally receives its distinction as  Selected  Landmark in the »365  Landmarks in the  Land of  Ideas« contest in the field of »science«.

2012 BIGSSS is again funded with another €9 million by the » Exzellenzinitiative«.

2014/2015  The process of restructuring and reorganization the academic profile including programs and research area are succefully carried out.  Jacobs  University can meet the demands of a globalized societies and traderelations.

Since 10  February 2014,  Katja  Windt has been  President of  Jacobs  University.  She succeeded  Prof.  Dr.  Heinz- Otto  Peitgen who was  President  for only one year, from 1  January 2013 until his early departure at the end of 2013, following his resignation.  His predecessor  Prof.  Dr.  Dr. h.c. mult.  Joachim  Treusch succeeded the  University’s founding  President  Dr.  Fritz  Schaumann on 1  July 2006.  Since  January 2008  Prof.  Dr.  Karin  Lochte,  Director of the  Alfred  Wegener  Institute for  Polar and  Marine  Research, is  Chair of the  Board of  Governors.

There are currently 1253 students from 114 countries pursuing  Bachelor’s,  Master's, and  Ph D degrees.  Currently there are 130 professors and over 260 research and instructional personnel working with the undergraduate and graduate student population.

Jacobs  University’s alumni association was founded in 2004 by the university’s pioneer graduating class.  Since then, the number of  Jacobs alumni has increased more than tenfold from 130 to over 3,000, about 80% of which have joined the alumni association.  To provide a legal framework for the alumni’s participation in shaping the university’s future, the  Jacobs  University  Bremen  Alumni &  Friends  Gmb H was founded in 2008.  Co-owned by the alumni association (99%) and the university (1%), the company became one of  Jacobs  University’s three shareholders.

In order to guarantee the practical orientation and students' networking capability,  Jacobs  University works with several companies and institutions.  This network and cooperation offers interships and jobs perspectives for alumni.

Jacobs  University's transdisciplinary approach is mirrored in all focus areas of research and teaching.  The university’s profile combines research and teaching equally and focuses on three general topics:

Scientists from different fields work together across disciplinary boundaries in highly innovative  Research  Centers.  Moreover, the  Jacobs  University accounts for third-party founds, e.g. DFG ( Deutsche  Forschungsgesellschaft).  The 8 research centers at a glance:

Age Act aims at providing a better understanding of how biological, behavioral and contextual processes interact to form individual aging outcomes.  The research work will lay the foundation for the development of successful personalized interventions and improve the quality of life in older age in the sense of a healthy, productive and meaningful life.

The  Cognitive  Systems and  Processes research center studies the generic processes in cognition as basis for artificial systems.  This aim is linked to two core scientific endeavors, namely the understanding of cognition and the quest for building artificial intelligent systems.

The  Research  Center is a unique endeavor bringing together economists, epidemiologists, political scientists, psychologists and sociologists under one thematic umbrella – human agency.  In the light of the most recent empirical evidence  Co Well finds support for a comprehensive process-tracing approach that cuts across disciplines and methodological orientations.

Mathematics,  Modeling, and  Computing hosts research at the interface between mathematics, natural sciences, modeling, and high-performance computing with applications in engineering and science.

The  Molecular  Life  Science  Center hosts research at the interface between mathematics, theoretical natural sciences, modeling, and high-performance computing with applications in engineering and science.  It is a place for research within and between these areas, and strives to contribute to the modeling of complex systems.

Visual  Communication and  Expertise aims at explaining visual production, distribution, usage and reception processes, as well as the meanings of mass-mediated and interpersonally communicated visuals in contemporary aesthetic, cultural, economic, historical, political, and social contexts.

Interdisciplinary in nature, the center focuses in research, teaching and consulting on the behavioral and social sciences aspects of demographic aging and its effects on the labor market.  The understanding and facilitation of lifelong learning is an important element in this problem constellation.

BIGSSS integrates excellent areas of graduate education and research at the  University of  Bremen and  Jacobs  University into a synergetic inter-university institution designed to become an internationally competitive model of graduate education. BIGSSS' guiding principles are education to excellence, quality assurance, and effective funding.  It is supported by the  German  Excellence  Initiative.

The “ China  Global”  Center deals with one of the pivotal issues of our time: the growing significance of  China for  Germany and  Europe at large.  The center’s main research objective is to assess the political, cultural, social and economic facets of  China’s growing global roles.  It does so through interdisciplinary research and in close collaboration with partner institutions in  China and other countries.  The institute will conduct projects which are relevant for the corporate world, and it creates dialogue forums for the general public sphere.

Jacobs  University's academic programs provide a broad range of academic majors in the natural sciences and engineering, the humanities and the social sciences.  All classes are taught in  English. A transdisciplinary approach to academic study allows students to discover how different fields interconnect and develop a problem-oriented perspective.  Jacobs  University offers research opportunities for students from early on.  Interactions with faculty and staff as well as personal involvement in its development are trademarks of this young university.

Jacobs  University offers a  Foundation  Year  Program that is designed to provide high school graduates with academic skills essential for undergraduate studies.  Among these are the necessary credentials for admission to  English-speaking universities, advanced competence in  English, strong study and academic skills as well as fundamental subject orientation in economics, engineering and the natural sciences.  Students who complete the program successfully have the opportunity to apply to regular  Jacobs  University undergraduate programs or to other universities worldwide.

The  Medical  Natural  Sciences program and the  Medical  Preparation program prepare students for later studies in medicine at  German state universities (or medical schools in the neighboring countries) and provide general career orientation in the health sector.

Jacobs  University has established student exchange programs with  Universidad de  Murcia  Spain,  Rice  University,  Washington  State  University,  Carnegie  Mellon  University in the USA,  Sciences  Po in  France,  Lafayette  College in the USA,  Thammasat  University in  Thailand,  Università degli  Studi di  Cagliari and  Università degli  Studi di  Roma " La  Sapienza" in  Italy, and more recently with the  University of  Aberdeen in  Scotland and  Instituto de  Empresa in  Spain.

Jacobs  University’s offers study programs leading to a  Bachelor’s degree in 3 years, a  Master’s degree in 1.5 to 2 years, a  Ph.D. or an  Executive MBA.

Jacobs  University has been receiving top grades in the  University  Ranking by the  Centre for  Higher  Education  Development (CHE), the most comprehensive and detailed ranking of higher education institutions in  German-speaking countries. 

The 80-acre  Jacobs  University  Bremen campus offers what, in  Germany, is a new concept for teaching, research, and living.  Undergraduate students live in four residential colleges on the campus.  Each college comprises students and faculty of different disciplines, origins, and ages.  Exchanges between students and faculty are encouraged outside as well as inside the seminar rooms. Jacobs  University is home to four residential colleges:  Alfried  Krupp  College,  Mercator  College,  College 3, and  College  Nordmetall. A variety of common rooms can be booked by students for conferences and meetings, playing games, practicing dance, and watching movies or sports.  The colleges offer similar amenities but foster their own unique identities with different traditions and events.  Each college is headed by a  College  Master, a professorial member of academic staff and their family,

There is a sports and convention center, playing fields, a cinema, a theater space,and a dedicated student facility building (the  Student  Activity  Center) including a late-night shop, the  Interfaith  House (serving the multiple purpose of a church, concert venue and praying location open to every religion), a café, multiple student clubs and even a kindergarten/preschool.  In terms of academic resources, there are lecture halls, classrooms and laboratories in different locations around the campus as well as the modern  Information  Resource  Centre (including an actual library and access to online research resources).

There is a variety of student clubs at  Jacobs  University.  They can basically be divided into sports clubs and “ Arts and  Culture” clubs.  Sports activities include, for example, rowing, soccer, basketball, volleyball, cricket, rugby, badminton, cheerleading, ballroom dance, salsa, breakdance, slacklining, ultimate frisbee and martial arts.  Exemplary clubs within the category “ Arts and  Culture” are the campus newspaper “ Pulse of the  World”, the model  United  Nations society “BRIMUN”, the debating society, the environmental club, the arts club.  The construction of a student theater in 2011 has allowed more students to participate in the performing arts. A new music room with rentable instruments, a recording booth and practice material has recently been built.  Student clubs have recently extended in to the creation of international competitions ( Jacobs  Hackathon and  Jacobs  Startup  Competition and the " Womens  International  Leadership  Conference).Karlstad  University ( Swedish  Karlstads universitet) is a state university in  Karlstad,  Sweden.  The university, being a former university college (founded 1977) was granted university status in 1999 by the  Government of  Sweden.  Originally it was a branch of the  University of  Gothenburg.  There are about 40 training programmes, 30 programme extensions and 900 courses within humanities, social studies, science, technology, teaching, health care and arts.  As of today, it has approximately 16,000 students and 1,200 employees.  Its university press is named  Karlstad  University  Press.

Service  Research  Center ( Swedish  Centrum för tjänsteforskning), or "CTF", at  Karlstad  University is one of the world's leading research centers focusing on service management and value creation through service.

On  March 26, 2009 the faculty of  Economics, communication and IT formed  Karlstad  Business  School ( Swedish  Handelshögskolan vid  Karlstads universitet) as a brand of their educational programmes in the business related areas.

Karlstad  University has two a cappella groups, Sällskapet CMB and Söt  Likör.  Many students live at the nearby student accommodation facilities called  Unionen and  Campus  Futurum.

The motto of the  University is  Sapere aude ( Dare to know).

Institutions of higher education issuing teaching degrees are obliged to have a board with responsibility for the teacher education programmes.  The  Faculty  Board for  Teacher  Education is also responsible for educational research.

At  Karlstad  University there is a business school situated with focus on a service perspective.  Karlstad  Business  School has seven disciplines and has a deep interest in economics and business.  Center for  Service  Research (CTF) conducts world leading research with a focus on value creation through service.

The  Ingesund  School of  Music is part of  Karlstad  University and the  Department of  Artistic  Studies.  It is situated in the beautiful  Arvika area in mid- Sweden.  The school offers music teacher education, music studies, and sound engineering.Karolinska  Institutet (KI, unofficially known as the  Karolinska  Institute and in older  English texts as the  Royal  Caroline  Institute) is a medical university in  Solna within the  Stockholm urban area,  Sweden, and one of the largest and most prestigious medical universities in the world.  The  Nobel  Assembly at  Karolinska  Institutet awards the  Nobel  Prize in  Physiology or  Medicine.  It consists of fifty professors from various medical disciplines at the university.

Karolinska  Institutet was founded in 1810 on  Kungsholmen on the west side of  Stockholm; the main campus was relocated decades later to  Solna, just outside  Stockholm. A second campus was established more recently in  Flemingsberg,  Huddinge, south of  Stockholm.  Karolinska  Institutet consistently ranks among the top universities in the world on a number of prestigious ranking tables, and is currently considered the ninth best university to study medicine in the world.

Karolinska  Institutet is  Sweden's third oldest medical school, after  Uppsala  University (founded in 1477) and  Lund  University (founded in 1666).  Research at  Karolinska  Institutet accounts for more than 40% of all academic medical research in  Sweden.

The  Karolinska  University  Hospital, located in  Solna and  Huddinge, is associated with the university as a research and teaching hospital.  Together they form an academic health science centre.  It is one of  Sweden's largest centres for training and research, accounting for 30 percent of the medical training and 40 percent of the medical academic research conducted nationwide.  While most of the medical programs are taught in  Swedish, the bulk of the  Ph.D. projects are conducted in  English.

1810  Karolinska  Institutet is founded by  King  Karl XIII on 13  December 1810 as an "academy for the training of skilled army surgeons" after one in three soldiers wounded in the  Finnish  War against  Russia died in field hospitals.  The medical skills of the army barber-surgeons are manifestly inadequate, so  Sweden needs to train surgeons in order to better prepare the country for future wars.

1811  Karolinska  Institutet is licensed to train not only surgeons but medical practitioners in general.

1813  As one of KI's first professors, Jöns  Jacob  Berzelius lays the foundations of KI's scientific orientation.

1816  The newly inaugurated institute is named " Carolinska  Institutet" (in reference to the  Caroleans), a title that never really makes an impact. " Carolinska  Medico  Chirurgiska institutet", however, proves more popular, especially when preceded by the epithet " Kongliga" ( Royal), as introduced in 1822.  It is in connection with the student revolt of 1968 that the name is shortened to  Karolinska  Institutet, or KI as it is now commonly known.  The original institute is situated in the  Royal  Bakery on  Riddarholmen (a small but central island in  Stockholm) and within a just a couple of years has four professorships affiliated to it in anatomy, natural history and pharmacy, theoretical medicine and practical medicine (internal medicine and surgery).  Anders  Johan  Hagströmer is appointed the institute's first inspector, a post equivalent to today's president.  Hagströmer is a professor of anatomy and surgery, with a background from the  Collegium  Medicum, the  National  Board of  Health and  Welfare of its day.  This same year, the institute moves to the old  Glasbruk quarter on  Norr Mälarstrand, beside what is now the  City  Hall.  The move across the waters of  Riddarfjärden is made on barges, one of which is said to have capsized, consigning parts of  Hagströmer's collection of preparations to the lake bed.  His library survives intact, however, and today forms part of the KI- Swedish  Society of  Medicine book museum at KI's  Hagströmer  Library.

1861  The institute is awarded the right to confer degrees and is granted a status equal to that of a university.

1866  The old building on the  Glasbruk plot is torn down and replaced by a new, larger one.  The new institute is built in stages, mostly during the 1880s and into the first decade of the 20th century.  The building stands to this day, and has remained largely unchanged since its erection.

1874 KI is licensed to confer medical degrees.  Previously, even though the institute could run courses in medicine, the right to confer medical degrees was almost exclusively that of  Uppsala  University.

1875  The first doctoral thesis is defended at KI by  Alfred  Levertin, with his " Om  Torpa Källa".

1878  Stockholm  University  College is inaugurated, but without a medical faculty as  Karolinska  Institutet is already established as a separate medical institute in  Stockholm.

1884  In  May,  Karolina  Widerström is the first woman to obtain a bachelor's degree in medicine from  Karolinska  Institutet.

1888  In  May,  Karolina  Widerström goes on to obtain a  Licentiate degree in medicine from  Karolinska  Institutet, and chooses to specialise in women's medicine and gynaecology.

1895  Alfred  Nobel's testament bequeaths  Karolinska  Institutet the right to select the  Nobel  Prize in  Physiology or  Medicine.  Since then, this assignment has given  Karolinska  Institutet a broad contact network in the field of medical science.  Over the years, five researchers from  Karolinska  Institutet have been awarded the  Nobel  Prize in  Physiology or  Medicine.

1897  The  Institute of  Dentistry is incorporated into  Karolinska  Institutet (becomes independent again in 1947).

1900  Anna  Stecksén is the first woman to obtain a doctoral degree from  Karolinska  Institutet.  Her thesis is entitled: " Studie öfver  Curtis blastomyocel - från svulst - etiologisk synpunkt".

1906  The first conferment ceremony takes place at KI.

1930  The  Swedish parliament decides that a new teaching hospital is to be built on  Norrbacka in  Solna, with its theoretical and practical functions side by side.  The chief architect is  Carl  Westman.  The hospital is named  Karolinska  Hospital after a proposal by  Karolinska  Institutet.

1937  Nanna  Svartz is appointed professor at  Karolinska  Institutet, becoming  Sweden's first state-employed female professor. KI's departments for radiophysics and radiopathology move into the  Radiumhemmet building on  Norrbacka, the first building of the new  Karolinska  Hospital.

1940  The main  Karolinska  Hospital building reaches completion and is officially opened.  The  Department of  Public  Health, KI's first building in the hospital complex, also opens.

1945 KI moves in its entirety from  Kungsholmen to the  Norrbacka area in  Solna, now KI's  Solna  Campus.  Over 350 students take their  Ph D degree each year.

1955  Hugo  Theorell becomes KI's first  Nobel  Laureate, receiving the  Nobel  Prize in  Physiology or  Medicine for his discoveries concerning the nature and mode of action of oxidation enzymes.

1959  The  Stockholm  Institute of  Physiotherapy is incorporated into KI.

1964  The  Speech  Pathology and  Therapy programme commences.  The  University  College of  Dentistry becomes an odontological faculty at KI.  The future  Huddinge  Hospital is upgraded as a new teaching and research hospital, operating in partnership with KI.

1965  Astrid  Fagréus becomes the second female professor at  Karolinska  Institutet.  By now, KI has around fifty professors.

1967  Ragnar  Granit is KI's second  Nobel  Laureate, receiving a  Nobel  Prize in  Physiology or  Medicine for his contributions to the analysis of retinal function and how optical nerve cells respond to light stimuli, colour and frequency.  The medical information centre for computer-based citation research (MIC) is set up, making  Karolinska  Institutet the first MEDLARS CENTRE ( Medical  Literature  Analysis and  Retrieval  System) outside the USA.

1970  Ulf von  Euler is KI's third  Nobel  Laureate, receiving a  Nobel  Prize in  Physiology or  Medicine for his contributions for discoveries concerning the humoral transmittors in the nerve terminals and the mechanism for their storage, release and inactivation.

1972  Huddinge  Hospital opens as a new university hospital.  As more and more of  Karolinska  Institutet's departments start to move into the hospital buildings, the area is gradually developed to become what is today KI's  Huddinge  Campus.

1977  The  Stockholm  Institute of  Physiotherapy closes, and the study programme is transferred to a new physiotherapy department at KI.

1982  Sune  Bergström and  Bengt  Samuelsson become the fourth and fifth  Nobel  Laureates, receiving a  Nobel  Prize in  Physiology or  Medicine for their discoveries concerning prostaglandins and related biologically active substances.  The NOVUM research centre is built in  Huddinge, with the foundations for biotechnology, oral biology, nutrition and toxicology, and structural biochemistry.

1993  The KI93 reorganisation is implemented, which involves reducing 150 departments to 30.  The dental technology programme commences.

1995  Karolinska  Institutet  Holding AB is formed and the institute intensifies its relations with the business community.  The biomedicine programme commences.

1996  Karolinska  Innovations AB is formed to help scientists commercialise their own discoveries.

1997  Karolinska  Institutet is granted official status as a university, with a mission to "contribute to the improvement of human health through research, education and information".

1998  The  Stockholm  University of  Health  Sciences is incorporated into KI, bringing with it seven new study programmes: occupational therapy, audionomy, midwifery, biomedical laboratory science, nursing, radiology nursing and dental hygiene.  The public health science programme commences.  The KI prospectus now comprises a total of 19 study programmes.  There are also now three student unions:  The  Medical  Students'  Union, the  Dental  Students'  Union, and the  Physiotherapy  Students'  Union.

1999  The medical and odontological faculties are merged and a new three-board management organisation is introduced, with one board each for research, postgraduate education and higher education.

2004  Karolinska  Institutet appoints its first female president –  Harriet  Wallberg- Henriksson, professor of integrative physiology.

2006  The podiatry programme commences.  The one and two-year  Master's programmes commence.

2008  Karolinska  Institutet's fundraising campaign, with its target of raising an extra 1 billion kronor for research between 2007 and 2010, passes the 600 million mark.

2009  King  Carl XVI  Gustaf consents to become the  Royal  Patron of the  Karolinska  Institutet bicentenary.

2013  Professor  Anders  Hamsten assumes his new position as vice-chancellor of  Karolinska  Institutet.

2016  Anders  Hamsten resigns as vice-cancellor in the wake of the  Macchiarini affair.

The rod of  Asclepius is named after the god of medicine,  Aesculapius or  Asclepius.  This ancient god was the son of  Apollo and was generally accompanied by a snake.  Over time, the snake became coiled around the staff borne by the god.

The snake bowl was originally depicted together with  Asclepius' daughter, the virgin goddess of health  Hygieia or  Hygiea.  The snake ate from her bowl, which was considered to bring good fortune.  There is nothing to support the notion that the snake would secrete its venom into the bowl.

The cockerel symbolises new life and was sacrificed to  Asclepius by those who had recovered from illness.  This is the meaning behind the  Greek philosopher  Socrates' last words after he drank the poisoned cup: " Crito, we owe a cock to  Asclepius.  Do pay it.  Don't forget."

Karolinska  Institutet offers the widest range of medical education under one roof in  Sweden.  Several of the programmes include clinical training or other training within the healthcare system.  The close proximity of the  Karolinska  University  Hospital and other teaching hospitals in the  Stockholm area thus plays an important role during the education.  Approximately 6,000 full-time students are taking educational and single subject courses at  Bachelor and  Master levels at  Karolinska  Institutet.

According to the 2012  Times  Higher  Education  World  University  Rankings,  Karolinska  Institutet is ranked 32nd worldwide, 5th in  Europe behind  Oxford university,  Cambridge university and UCL, 1st in the  Nordic region  and according to the 2011  Academic  Ranking of  World  Universities,  Karolinska  Institutet is ranked 11th in the world in the field of clinical medicine and pharmacology, 18th in life sciences and 3rd in pharmacy.  Karolinska  Institutet is not measured in QS  World  University  Rankings since QS only ranks multi-faculty universities.  However, QS does rank  Karolinska  Institutet in life sciences and medicine, placing the institute as the best in  Sweden, 3rd in  Europe and 9th worldwide in 2010.  In 2015, the QS ranked the  Department of  Dental  Medicine 1st in the world.

The university is a member of the 22-strong  League of  European  Research  Universities.  On two campuses it covers the gamut of research and clinical medicine and pharmacology, with a faculty of more than 2,300 serving around 8,000 undergraduate and postgraduate students.  For the year 2013,  Academic ranking of world universities ranks  Karolinska  Institutet at number 44 overall in the world, and number 11 in the world/number 2 in  Europe in the field of  Clinical  Medicine and  Pharmacy.  For the year of 2013/2014,  Karolinska  Institutet is placed at overall number 36 in the world and number 7 in  Europe as well as number 14 in the world and number 6 in  Europe among  Clinical,  Pre- Clinical and  Health  Universities.

In  February 2015, the KI announced it had received a record $50 million donation from  Lau  Ming-wai, who chairs  Hong  Kong property developer  Chinese  Estates  Holdings, and would establish a research centre in the city.  Within a few days,  Next  Magazine revealed that  Chuen-yan – son of  Hong  Kong  Chief  Executive CY  Leung – had recently been awarded a fellowship to research heart disease therapeutics at the institute in  Stockholm beginning that year, and raised questions about the "intricate relationship between the chief executive and powerful individuals". CY  Leung had visited KI when in  Sweden in 2014, and subsequently introduced KI president,  Anders  Hamsten, to  Lau.  The  Democratic  Party urged the ICAC to investigate the donation, suggesting that  Leung may have abused his public position to further his son's career.  The  Chief  Executive's  Office strenuously denied suggestions of any quid pro quo, saying that "the admission of the [ Chief  Executive's] son to post-doctoral research at KI is an independent decision by KI having regard to his professional standards.  He [the son] plays no role and does not hold any position at the [proposed]  Ming  Wai  Lau  Center for  Regenerative  Medicine."

The  Nobel  Assembly at  Karolinska  Institutet is a body at  Karolinska  Institutet which awards the  Nobel  Prize in  Physiology or  Medicine.  The  Nobel  Assembly consists of fifty professors in medical subjects at  Karolinska  Institutet, appointed by the faculty of the  Institute, and is a private organisation which is formally not part of  Karolinska  Institutet.  The main work involved in collecting nominations and screening nominees is performed by the  Nobel  Committee at  Karolinska  Institutet, which has five members.  The  Nobel  Committee, which is appointed by the  Nobel  Assembly, is only empowered to recommend laureates, while the final decision rests with the  Nobel  Assembly.

In the early history of the  Nobel  Prize in  Physiology or  Medicine, which was first awarded in 1901, the laurates were decided upon by the entire faculty of  Karolinska  Institutet.  The reason for creating a special body for the decisions concerning the  Nobel  Prize was the fact that  Karolinska  Institutet is a state-run university, which in turn means that it is subject to various laws that apply to government agencies in  Sweden and similar  Swedish public sector organisations, such as freedom of information legislation.  By moving the actual decision making to a private body at  Karolinska  Institute (but not part of it), it is possible to follow the regulations for the  Nobel  Prize set down by the  Nobel  Foundation, including keeping the confidentiality of all documents and proceedings for a minimum of 50 years.  Also, the legal possibility of contesting the decisions in e.g. administrative courts is removed.

The other two  Nobel  Prize-awarding bodies in  Sweden, the  Royal  Swedish  Academy of  Sciences and the  Swedish  Academy, are legally private organisations (although enjoying royal patronage), and have therefore not had to make any special arrangements to be able to follow the  Nobel  Foundation's regulations.The  Kristianstad  University ( Swedish: Högskolan  Kristianstad) is a university college (högskola) in  Kristianstad,  Sweden.

Established in 1977,  Kristianstad  University is one of the newest  Swedish institutions of higher education.  However, higher education in the region is much older.  Teacher education can be traced back to 1835. A training course for nurses was started in 1893.  Technical education was established in 1912.

In 1995,  Kristianstad  University moved into the present main campus.  The college has 12 000 students in various fields of study.,  Programmes and courses are offered in teaching, behavioural, social, natural and health sciences, business administration and engineering.Lillehammer  University  College is a  Norwegian state-run university college located at  Storhove in  Lillehammer.  It was established in 1971 as  Oppland  College and took its current form in 1995.  It is located in the television and radio center built for the 1994  Winter  Olympic  Games.  The college offers undergraduate programs in  Travel and  Tourism,  Business  Administration,  Organisation and  Management,  Film and  Television,  Health and  Social  Work,  Humanities and  Social  Sciences, and graduate programs in  Education,  Social  Policy,  Health and  Social  Work for  Children and  Youth,  Social  Welfare, and  Film and TV  Science.

The  Norwegian  Film  School, the first film school in  Norway, was founded as part of the college in 1997 in the facilities that hosted the media center during the 1994  Winter  Olympics.  The school had new facilities built in 2004.  Inside the school there is a cinema and 2 sound stages.Linköping  University (in  Swedish:  Linköpings universitet,  Li U) is a state university in  Linköping,  Sweden.  Linköping  University was granted full university status in 1975 and is now one of  Sweden's larger academic institutions.  Education, research and  Ph D training are the mission of four faculties:  Arts and  Sciences,  Educational  Sciences,  Medicine and  Health  Sciences and the  Institute of  Technology.  In order to facilitate interdisciplinary work, there are 14 large departments combining knowledge from several disciplines and often belonging under more than one faculty.  Linköping  University emphasises dialogue with the surrounding business sphere and the community at large, both in terms of research and education.  In 2015,  Linköping  University was home to 27,000 students and 4,000 employees.

The origins of  Linköping  University date back to the 1960s.  In 1965,  The  Swedish  National  Legislative  Assembly ( Riksdag) decided to locate some programmes within the fields of technology and medicine to  Linköping.  In 1967 a branch of  Stockholm  University was placed in  Linköping, offering education within humanities, social sciences and natural sciences.  Two years later a unit for medical training and the  Institute of  Technology were established.  In 1970 all activities were brought together in three faculties within the  Linköping  University  College: the  Faculty of  Arts and  Sciences, the  Faculty of  Medicine and the  Institute of  Technology.  Linköping  University was established in 1975.

In 1977 former teacher training colleges in  Linköping and  Norrköping were transferred to  Linköping  University and in 1986 the  Faculty of  Health  Sciences was formed, based on the faculty of medicine and regional funded education in health care professions.  In 1997 a campus was opened in the neighbouring city of  Norrköping.  The renowned  Carl  Malmsten  School of  Furniture has been part of  Linköping  University since 2000.  After almost 60 years at the city centre, the school moved into new premises on the outskirts of  Stockholm in 2009.

Linköping  University pursues research and postgraduate studies within the fields of technology, medicine, and humanities, natural, educational, social and behavioural sciences.  It is particularly noted for its openness to multidisciplinary research and, in 1980, was the first  Swedish university to introduce interdisciplinary thematic research at the  Faculty of  Arts and  Sciences, and a cross-subject, interdisciplinary perspective in graduate schools for  Ph D students.

Linköping  University receives research grants from the  Swedish government within five strategic research areas: IT and mobile communication, materials science, security and emergency management, e- Science and transport research.

Linköping  University offers education at the basic and advanced levels via 120 study programmes, 550 single-subject courses and specialised as well as interdisciplinary postgraduate studies. A large number of the degree programmes lead to qualified professional degrees in fields such as medicine, business and economics, teacher education and engineering.  Many of the programmes are interdisciplinary, combining for example industrial management and engineering, medicine and engineering, or integrating economics, law and languages.  In 1986 the  Faculty of  Health  Sciences became the first faculty in  Sweden to put problem-based learning into practice within medical training and health-care programmes.  In 2007, the  Medical  Programme and the  Department of  Electrical  Engineering,  Control systems were recognised as  Centres of  Excellence in  Higher  Education by the  Swedish  National  Agency for  Higher  Education.  The recognition was based on a thorough quality assessment by a panel of experts.

Education and research are conducted at three campuses in the cities of  Linköping and  Norrköping, situated approximately 200-160 kilometres south of  Stockholm, and a fourth campus in  Lidingö,  Stockholm.

For a complete list of centres, see  Departments and  Centres at  Linköping  University

Two science parks are closely connected to  Linköping  University.

Mentioned in the  Hollywood movie  Agent  Cody  Banks. "... The most impressive tests on microsurgery were conducted at  Sweden's  Linköping  University..." Linnaeus  University (LNU) ( Swedish:  Linnéuniversitetet) is a state university in the  Småland region of  Sweden.  It has two campuses, one in Växjö and one in  Kalmar.  Linnaeus  University was established in 2010 by a merger of former Växjö  University and  Kalmar  University (Högskolan i  Kalmar), and has been named in honour of botanist  Carl  Linnaeus.

Växjö  University began as a local department of  Lund  University in 1967.  The department became an independent university college in 1970, and was granted full university status in 1999.

Kalmar  University was similarly a university college, founded in 1977.  Though not a university by the  Swedish definition, it had been entitled to issue doctoral degrees in the natural sciences since 1999.

The university's logo is a stylized tree.  The origin is a  Linnaeus drawing taken from his 1725 publication Örtabok.  While the tree is said to be a symbol for the month of  May and to represent the power of growth, it also symbolize the university's ambition to be a global university with the region as its base and the world as its arena.

There are two campuses, one in Växjö and one in  Kalmar.

Kalmar is a medium-sized town, with ideal settings for student life.  The town is attractive and conveniently laid out, with a colorful history and a castle dating back to medieval times, close proximity to the sea, undulating farmlands and deep forests.  The  School of  Natural  Sciences in  Kalmar has special competence in the area of life, health and the environment and is recognized for excellence in teaching and research across a range of natural sciences and related disciplines.  The  School offers  Master’s programmes which equip the graduate for work in industry or future studies towards a  Ph D.  However, the student life in  Kalmar has recent been partly worked against by the local authorities.  For example, the only night club for students in  Kalmar,  Core  House, was closed due to a rent chock from the owner,  Kalmar  Kommun.

Växjö, is a central community in southeastern  Sweden, with a full range of cultural and musical life in its many museums, theaters, cathedrals and concert halls.  The  House of  Emigrants commemorates the great emigration epoch from 1850 to 1930, when 1.3 million  Swedes emigrated to  America.  The region is also known for its high tech industry, pulp and paper manufacturing, and home of the furniture manufacturer, IKEA.  The surrounding pristine lakes and forests are an attraction for those who love wildlife and the outdoors. Växjö is also one of the leading tennis cities in the world as  Mats  Wilander,  Stefan  Edberg,  Magnus  Larsson and  Jonas  Bjorkman have all trained and played here. Växjö is easily accessible from  Copenhagen and  Stockholm by plane and train.

The campus is located just outside Växjö city center.  It was modelled after the  American  Campus style, meaning that all teaching premises are within walking distance.  The campus was built with the environment in mind, as it is bordering a nature conservation area.

There are 3,700 student apartments and dorm rooms on the university campus housing approximately 4,600-5,200 students. A part of the university campus is dedicated to the  Videum  Science  Park.  The park gives space to over 100 companies, thus being in close proximity with the university and encouraging innovation and research.  The university also has student housing on  Seminarievägen located in Växjö city center.

Teaching premises and accommodation stand side by side on the campus.  There are also restaurants, cafés, bars, bookshops, a sports centre and a variety of service facilities.  The campus offers a safe, relaxed environment despite the high level of activity.  It is bordered by meadows, a nature conservation area, a lake with bird-watching towers and a castle.

New buildings have been erected with due concern for the environment, leaving room for old trees and moss-covered boulders among the new architecture on campus.  Cars have only limited access to the site, but cycle paths lead directly to the town centre and out into the beautiful countryside all around.

VIS stands for Växjö  International  Students.  It is a non-profit organisation, and a local section of ESN  Sweden.

The board and its community consist of students that use their own spare time to create activities for all exchange students, and to give them a positive experience of Växjö.

The  School of  Natural  Sciences is part of the  Faculty of  Science and  Engineering.  Scientists working at the school are involved in research and teaching activities in  Biology,  Biomedical  Science,  Pharmacy,  Chemistry,  Food  Science,  Environmental  Science,  Optometry and  Science  Education.  Most of the research laboratories and classes are operated in  Kalmar.  It offers seven  Bachelor programs (in  Swedish) and four  Master programs.

A non-comprehensive list of the research group operating with the school include:Luleå  University of  Technology ( Swedish:  Luleå tekniska universitet) of  Sweden is  Scandinavia's northernmost university of technology.  It has four campuses, located in  Luleå (the main campus),  Kiruna (space science),  Skellefteå (wood technology and computer game engineering) and  Piteå ( Department of music and media).

The university was founded on 1  June 1971 at  Porsön in  Luleå as Högskoleenheten i  Luleå.  The name was later changed to Högskolan i  Luleå ( Luleå  University  College).  In 1997, it was granted university status by the  Swedish government, and is since known as  Luleå  University of  Technology.

In 1977 it was merged with the older  Teacher's  Training  College of  Luleå and a year later  Piteå  School of  Music ( Musikhögskolan i  Piteå) was created.

LTU offers 17  Master programs that include programs in  Civil  Engineering,  Climate  Sensitive  Urban  Planning and  Building,  Wood  Technology,  Spacecraft  Design along with other programs.

As of 2005, there are three students' unions at the university,  Teknologkåren vid  Luleå tekniska universitet (the  Student  Association of  Engineering at  Luleå  University of  Technology) for students studying towards an engineering or other degree within the field of technology,  Piteå  Studentkår (the  Students'  Union in  Piteå) and  Luleå studentkår ( Luleå  Students'  Union) for most other students.

The unions are divided into sections, each responsible for a somewhat arbitrary number of academic programmes.  They are run by a board of eight to ten students for no profit.

Luleå  Student  Union has the following sections:

The  Student  Association of  Engineering has the following sections:Lund  University ( Swedish:  Lunds universitet) is one of northern  Europe's oldest, largest, and most prestigious universities, consistently ranking among the world's top 100 universities.  The university, located in the city of  Lund in the province of  Scania,  Sweden, traces its roots back to 1425, when a  Franciscan studium generale was founded in  Lund next to the  Lund  Cathedral (with baccalaureates education started in 1438), making it the oldest institution of higher education in  Scandinavia followed by studia generalia in  Uppsala in 1477 and  Copenhagen in 1479.  After  Sweden won  Scania from  Denmark in the 1658  Treaty of  Roskilde, the university was founded in 1666 on the location of the old studium generale next to  Lund  Cathedral.

Lund  University has eight faculties, with additional campuses in the cities of  Malmö and  Helsingborg, with 41,000 students in 302 different programmes and 2,046 freestanding courses.  The  University has some 600 partner universities in over 70 countries and it belongs to the  League of  European  Research  Universities as well as the global  Universitas 21 network.

Two major facilities for materials research are in  Lund  University: MAX IV, which is a world-leading synchrotron radiation laboratory – inaugurated in  June 2016, and  European  Spallation  Source (ESS), a  European facility that will be home to the world’s most powerful neutron source (opens in 2023).

The university traditionally centers on the  Lundagård park adjacent to the  Lund  Cathedral, with various departments spread in different locations in town, but mostly concentrated in a belt stretching north from the park connecting to the university hospital area and continuing out to the northeastern periphery of the town, where one finds the large campus of the  Faculty of  Engineering.

The city of  Lund has a long history as a center for learning and was the ecclesiastical centre and seat of the archbishop of  Denmark. A cathedral school (the  Katedralskolan) for the training of clergy was established in 1085 and is today  Scandinavia's oldest school.

A studium generale (a medieval university education) was founded in 1425, and in 1438 education was started by the  Franciscan order for a baccalaureus degree.

After the  Treaty of  Roskilde in 1658, the  Scanian lands came under the possession of the  Swedish  Crown, which founded the  University in 1666 as a means of making  Scania  Swedish by educating teachers in  Swedish, and to culturally integrate the  Scania region with  Sweden.  The university was named  Academia  Carolina after  Charles X  Gustav of  Sweden until the late 19th century, when  Lund  University became the widespread denomination.  It was the fifth university under the  Swedish king, after  Uppsala  University (1477), the  University of  Tartu (1632, now in  Estonia), the  Academy of Åbo (1640, now in  Finland), and the  University of  Greifswald (founded 1456;  Swedish 1648–1815, now in  Germany).

The university was at its founding granted four faculties: law, theological, medicine and philosophy.  They were the cornerstones, and for more than 200 years this system was in effect.  Towards the end of the 17th century, the number of students hovered around 100.  Some notable professors in the early days were  Samuel  Pufendorf, a juridical historian; and  Canutus  Hahn and  Kristian  Papke in philosophy.

The  Scanian  War in 1676 led to a shut-down, which lasted until 1682.  The university was re-opened largely due to regional patriots, but the university was not to enjoy a high status until well into the 19th century.  Lecturing rooms were few, and lectures were held in the  Lund  Cathedral and its adjacent chapel.  The professors were underpaid.

In 1713,  Charles XII of  Sweden entered  Lund.  He stayed in  Lund for three years, in between his warlike expeditions.  Lund and the university attracted a temporary attention boost.  The most notable lecturer during this time was  Andreas  Rydelius.

Peace was finally restored with the death of  Charles XII in 1718, and during the first half of the 18th century the university was granted added funds.  The number of students was now well around 500.  Despite not being on par with  Uppsala  University, it had still built a solid reputation and managed to attract prominent professors.

Around 1760 the university reputation dropped as the number of students fell below 200, most of whom hailed from around the province.  However, by 1780 its reputation was largely restored, and continued to rise through the 1820s.  This was largely owing to popular and well-educated lecturers particularly in philology; the prominent professor  Esaias  Tegnér was a particularly notable character with widespread authority.  He, in turn, attracted others towards  Lund.  One of these was the young theological student C. G.  Brunius, who studied ancient languages under  Tegnér and were later to become professor of  Greek.  With time he was to devote himself to architectures and he redesigned several of  Lund's buildings, as well as churches of the province.

A student called  Elsa  Collin was the first woman in the whole of  Sweden to take part in a spex.

In the early 20th century, the university had a student population as small as one thousand, consisting largely of upper-class pupils training to become civil servants, lawyers and doctors.  In the coming decades it started to grow significantly, until it became one of the country's largest.  In 1964 the social sciences were split from the  Faculty of  Humanities.  Lund  Institute of  Technology was established in 1961 but was merged with  Lund  University eight years later.

In recent years,  Lund  University has been very popular among applicants to  Swedish higher education institutions, both nationally and internationally.  For studies starting in autumn 2012,  Lund received 11,160 foreign master's applications from 152 countries, which was roughly one third of all international applications to  Swedish universities.

The first woman to study in  Lund was  Hildegard  Björck (spring of 1880) who had previously studied in  Uppsala and had there been the first  Swedish woman ever to get an academic degree.  Her tenure in  Lund was however very brief and the medical student  Hedda  Andersson who entered the university later in 1880 (two years before the next woman to do so) is usually mentioned as the first woman at  Lund  University.  Hilma  Borelius was the first woman who finished a doctorate in  Lund, in 1910.  The first woman to be appointed to a professor's chair was the historian  Birgitta  Odén (1965).  In 1992  Boel  Flodgren,  Professor of  Business  Law, was appointed rector magnificus (or, strictly speaking, rectrix magnifica) of  Lund  University.  As such, she was the first woman to be the head of a  European university.

The university's facilities are mainly located in the small city of  Lund in  Scania, about 15 km away from central  Malmö and 50 km from  Copenhagen.  The university's prominence and large student population have much impact on the city, effectively making it a university town.  Over a hundred university buildings scatter around town, most of them in an area covering more than 1 km², stretching towards the north-east from  Lundagård park in the very centre of town.  Buildings in and around  Lundagård include the main building,  Kungshuset, the  Historical  Museum and the  Academic  Society's headquarters.  The main library building is located in a park 400 meters to the north, followed by the large hospital complex.

Lund  University has a satellite campus in nearby  Malmö,  Sweden's third largest city.  The  Faculty of  Fine and  Perforning  Arts' three academies:  Malmö  Art  Academy,  Malmö  Academy of  Music and  Malmö  Theatre  Academy, are all located in  Malmö.  The city is also the location of  Skåne  University  Hospital, where  Lund  University performs a considerable amount of research and medical training.

Campus  Helsingborg is, as the name suggests, located in the city of  Helsingborg, almost 50 km from  Lund.  Opened in 2000, it consists of a building in the city centre, right next to the central train station and the harbour.  Nearly 3,000 students are based on the campus.  The  Department of  Service  Management and the  Department of  Communication and  Media are among those located at the campus in  Helsingborg.

Teaching and training at the  School of  Aviation (LUSA) takes place at an airfield next to the town of  Ljungbyhed, about 40 km away from  Lund.

Lund  University library was established in 1666 at the same time as the university and is one of  Sweden's oldest and largest libraries.  Since 1698 it has received legal deposit copies of everything printed in the country.  Today six  Swedish libraries receive legal deposit copies, but only  Lund and the  Royal  Library in  Stockholm are required to keep everything for posterity.  Swedish imprints make up half of the collections, which amount to 170,000 linear metres of shelving (2006).  The library serves 620,000 loans per year, the staff is 200 full-time equivalents, and the 33 branch libraries house 2600 reading room desks.  The current main building at  Helgonabacken opened in 1907.  Before that, the old building was  Liberiet close to the city's cathedral.  Liberiet was built as a library in the 15th century, but now serves as a cafe.

Education and research in the health sciences at the university is operated in cooperation with  Skåne  University  Hospital, located in both  Lund and  Malmö.  Medical education takes place in the  Biomedical  Centre, next to the hospital in  Lund.  Nursing and occupational therapy are taught in the  Health  Sciences  Centre nearby.  The university also operates the  Clinical  Research  Centre in  Malmö, featuring many specialized laboratories.  There are over 100 faculty.

The  University  Board is the  University's highest decision-making body.  The  Board comprises the  Vice- Chancellor, representatives of the teaching staff and students, and representatives of the community and business sector.  Chair of the board is  Margot  Wallström.  Executive power lies with the  Vice- Chancellor and the  University  Management  Group, to which most other administrative bodies are subordinate.

Lund  University is divided into eight faculties:

The university is also organised into more than 20 institutes and research centres, such as:

Approximately 42,000 students study within one of the 276 educational programs, the 100 international master's programmes or the 2,200 free-standing courses.  Around five hundred courses are, or can be, held in  English for the benefit of international exchange students.  There are several programmes allowing foreign students to study abroad at the  University.  Notable exchangees include  United  States  Supreme  Court  Justice  Ruth  Bader  Ginsburg, who spent time at  Lund  University in the 1960s conducting research.  The university offers 9 out of the 20 most sought after programmes in  Sweden.  The master's programme in  International  Marketing is the most popular choice in the country, with almost a thousand applications yearly.

Lund  University is well known as one of  Scandinavia's largest research universities.  It ranks among top performers in the  European  Union in terms of papers accepted for publication in scientific journals.  It is one of  Sweden's top receiver of research grants, most of which come from government-funded bodies.  The EU is the university's second largest external research funder and  Lund is the 23rd largest receiver of funding within the union's  Seventh  Framework  Programme.  The university is active in many internationally important research areas such as nanotechnology, climate change and stem cell biology.

One of the most famous innovations based on research from  Lund  University is diagnostic ultrasound, which is today a routine method of examination in hospitals around the world.  Other examples of pioneering innovations are the artificial kidney, which laid the foundations for the multinational company  Gambro and which makes life easier for dialysis patients worldwide, and  Bluetooth technology, which enables wireless communication over short distances.

Lund  University is among the most renowned institutions of higher learning in the  Nordic countries and is commonly ranked within the top 100 in the world by the most influential ranking agencies.  Lund was ranked 60th in the world in the 2014/15 QS  World  University  Rankings.  In 2015, it ranked 90th in the world by the  Times  Higher  Education  World  University  Rankings, and in the  Academic  Ranking of  World  Universities, compiled by  Shanghai  Jiao  Tong  University, it was in the 101-150 category.  In the recent released  National  Taiwan  University  Ranking,  Lund  University is ranked 87th in the world for  Performance  Ranking of  Scientific  Papers for  World  Universities 2015.

In 2011,  Times  Higher  Education compiled a special world ranking based exclusively on reputation for teaching and research, where  Lund  University appeared in the 71-80 category.  In the same year, QS issued world university rankings by subject, placing  Lund within the top 50 in environmental sciences, geography and area studies, physical sciences and civil and structural engineering.

In 2014, the  National  Secretary of  Higher  Education,  Science,  Technology and  Innovation,  Ecuador ( Senescyt), as a parameter for awarding scholarships, created a list of top  Universities around the world placing  Lund  University in  Top 1 in " Natural  Sciences,  Mathematics and  Statistics"  and  Top 3 in both fields: " Information  Technology and  Communication"  and " Engineering,  Manufacturing and  Construction".

The 2013-2014  Times  Higher  Education  World  University  Rankings'  Engineering and  Technology table placing  Lund  University 78 around the world., in "art and  Humanities" 74th, in " Clinical,  Pre-clinical and  Health" 77th, in " Life  Sciences" 67th, and in " Physical  Sciences" 57th.

The  Academic  Ranking of  World  Universities in  Engineering/ Technology and  Computer  Sciences - 2013 placed to  Lund  University 76-100 category.

The 2015-2016 URAP ( University  Ranking by  Academic  Performance) placed to  Lund  University 87th in the world  with qualification A++.

The 2015-16  Times  Higher  Education  World  University  Rankings placed the university in 90th place worldwide.

Lund student life is based on three central structures: the student nations, the  Academic  Society (AF) and the student unions.  Before  July 1, 2010, students were required to enroll in a student union, nation or AF in order to receive grades at the university, but this is no longer compulsory.  Students may still enroll in these organizations if they wish.

The nations in  Lund are a central part of the university's history, initially serving as residential colleges for students, organized by geographic origin. Östgöta  Nation, the oldest nation, was established in 1668, two years after the university was founded.  While the nations still offer limited housing, today they are best described as student societies.

Today students may enroll in any nation, although the nations still preserve their geographic names.  In most cases it does not matter what nation one enrolls in, but different nations offer different activities for interested students.

Each nation has student housing, but the accommodations in no way meet demand, and they are usually appointed according to a queue system.  Each nation has at least one pub evening per week, with a following night club.  The solemn peak event in the course of an activity year is the organization of student balls once a year.  Most well known of the nation balls (as opposed to balls organized by student unions) is the ball hosted by Göteborgs  Nation - called the " Gustaf II  Adolf  Ball" (also known as the "GA- Ball").  Most nations also host at least one banquet per week, where a three course dinner is served.  Each nation also has different activities for students interested in sports, arts, or partying.  All activities within the nations are voluntary.

In 1830,  Professor  Carl  Adolph  Agardh formed  Akademiska Föreningen ( The  Academic  Society), commonly referred to as AF, with the goal of "developing and cultivating the academic life" by bringing students and faculty from all departments and student nations together in one organization.  Prince  Oscar I, then  Sweden's  Chancellor of  Education, donated 2000  Kronor to help found the society.  In 1848, construction began on AF- Borgen (the AF  Fortress), which is located opposite the  Main  Building in  Lundagård.  To this day, AF is the center of student life in  Lund, featuring many theater companies, a prize-winning student radio ( Radio AF), and organizing the enormous  Lundakarnevalen (the  Lund  Carnival) every four years. "AF  Bostäder", an independent foundation with close ties to  Akademiska Föreningen, maintains over 5,700 student residences in  Lund.

The student unions represent students in various decision-making boards within the university and council students regarding their rights, housing and career options.  There are nine student unions, one for each faculty and an additional union for doctoral students.  Lund's  Doctoral  Student  Union is further divided into councils, one for each faculty except for the faculties of engineering and fine and performing arts.

The unions are incorporated into the  Association of  Lund  University  Student  Unions (LUS).  It has two full-time representatives who go to weekly meetings with the vice-chancellor and other organizational university bodies.  The student union association runs services such as loan institute, a day-care centre and a website with housing information.  It also publishes the monthly  Lundagård magazine.

Alumni and faculty of  Lund  University are associated with, among other things: the creation of the first implantable pacemaker, the development of echocardiography, the spread of modern physiotherapy, the discovery of the role of dopamine as an independent neurotransmittor, the determination of the number of chromosomes of man, the establishment of osseointegration, the development of the  Bluetooth technology, and the creation of the  Rydberg formula.

The following is a selected list of some notable people who have been affiliated with  Lund  University as students or academics.

Samuel  Pufendorf (1632-1694) was a notable jurist and philosopher known for his natural law theories, influencing  Adam  Smith  as well as  Thomas  Jefferson.  Olof von  Dalin (1708-1763) was an influential  Swedish writer and historian of the late enlightenment era.  Peter  Wieselgren (1800-1877) was a  Swedish priest, literature critic and prominent leader of the  Swedish temperance movement.  Knut  Wicksell (1851-1926) was an influential economist, sometimes considered one of the founders of modern macro economics.  Oscar  Olsson (1877-1950) was an important developer of self-education in  Sweden and known as the father of study circles.  Bertil  Ohlin (1899-1979) received the  Nobel  Prize in economic sciences in 1977 for theories concerning international trade and capital, and was the leader of the  Liberal’s  Peoples  Party ( Folkpartiet) for 23 years.  Gunnar  Jarring (1907-2002) was  Sweden’s ambassador in UN 1956-1958, and  Sweden’s ambassador in  Washington DC 1958-1964.  Britta  Holmström (1911-1992) was the founder of  Individuell Människohjälp (IM), a human rights organization with activities in 12 countries.  Torsten Hägerstrand (1916-2004) was an internationally renowned geographer, considered the father of ‘time geography’ and receiver of the  Lauréat  Prix  International de Géographie  Vautrin  Lud in 1992.  Judith  Wallerstein (1921-2012) was a renowned psychologist and internationally recognized authority on the effects of marriage and divorce on children and their parents.

Carl  Linnaeus (1707–1778), began his academic career in  Lund by studying medicine and botany for a year before moving to  Uppsala.  He is known as the father of modern taxonomy, and is also considered one of the fathers of modern ecology.  Pehr  Henrik  Ling (1776-1839) is considered the prime developer of natural gymnastics, the father of  Swedish massage, and one of the most important contributors to the development and spread of modern physical therapy.  Carl  Adolph  Agardh (1787-1859) made important contributions to the study of algae and played an important role as a politician in raising educational standards in  Sweden.  Elias  Magnus  Fries (1794-1878) was a notable botanist who played a prominent role in the creation of the modern taxonomy of mushrooms.  Nils  Alwall (1904-1986) was a pioneer in hemodialysis who constructed the first practical dialysis machine, commercialized by  The  Gambro  Company.  Rune  Elmqvist (1906-1996) was a physician and medical engineer who developed the first implantable pacemaker as well as the first inkjet ECG printer.  Lars  Leksell (1907-1986) was a notable neurosurgeon who was the father of radiosurgery and later the inventor of the  Gamma  Knife.  Inge  Edler (1911-2001) developed the medical ultrasonography in 1953, commonly known as echocardiography, together with  Hellmuth  Hertz, and was awarded the  Lasker  Clinical  Medical  Research  Award in 1977.  Sune  Bergström (1916-2004) and  Bengt  Samuelsson (1934-) were awarded the  Nobel  Prize in  Physiology or  Medicine in 1982 for “discoveries concerning prostaglandins and related biologically active substances".  Arvid  Carlsson (1923-) was awarded the  Nobel  Prize in  Physiology or  Medicine in 2000 for “discoveries concerning signal transduction in the nervous system" and is noted for having discovered the role of dopamine as an independent neurotransmitter 

Per  Georg  Scheutz (1785-1873) was a  Swedish lawyer, publicist and inventor who created the first working programmable difference engine with a printing unit.  Martin  Wiberg (1826-1905) was a prolific inventor who, among many things, created the first difference engine the size of a sewing machine that could calculate and print logarithmic tables.  Johannes  Rydberg (1854-1919) was a renowned physicist famous for the  Rydberg formula and the  Rydberg constant.  Carl  Charlier (1862-1934) was an internationally acclaimed astronomer who made important contributions to astronomy as well as statistics and was awarded the  James  Craig  Watson  Medal in 1924 and the  Bruce  Medal in 1933.  Manne  Siegbahn (1886-1978), a student of  Rydberg, was awarded the  Nobel  Prize in  Physics 1924 for his discoveries and research in the field of X-ray spectroscopy.  Oskar  Klein (1894-1977) was an internationally renowned theoretical physicist famous for the  Klein- Karluza theory, the  Klein- Gordon equation, and the  Klein- Nishina formula.  Pehr  Edman (1916-1977) was a renowned biochemist who developed a method for sequencing proteins, known as the  Edman degradation, and has been called the father of modern biochemistry.  Hellmuth  Hertz (1920-1990) developed the echocardiography together with  Inge  Edler (see above), and was also the first to develop the ink jet technology of printing.  Lars Hörmander (1931-2012) is sometimes considered the foremost contributor to the modern theory of linear partial differential equations and received the  Fields  Medal in 1962 for his early work on equations with constant coefficients.  Karl  Johan Åström (1934-) is a notable control theorist, who in 1993 was awarded the IEEE  Medal of  Honor for “fundamental contributions to theory and applications of adaptive control technology”.  Sven  Mattisson (1955-) is an electrical engineer who was one of the developers of the  Bluetooth technology.

Rutger  Macklean (1742-1816) was a prominent captain, politician and land owner remembered for introducing agricultural reforms leading to more effective large-scale farming in  Sweden.  Ernst  Wigforss (1881-1977) was  Sweden’s finance minister 1925-1926 and 1932-1949 and has been considered the ‘foremost developer of the  Swedish  Social  Democracy’. Östen  Undén (1886-1974) was an internationally recognized professor of law and  Sweden’s minister of foreign affairs 1924-1926 and 1945-1962.  Tage  Erlander (1901-1985) was  Sweden’s prime minister 1945-1969, potentially a record of uninterrupted tenure in parliamentary democracies, and led his party through eleven elections.  Ruth  Bader  Ginsburg (1933-) is a justice of the supreme court of the USA, the second female justice to be in this position.  Ingvar  Carlsson (1934-) served as  Sweden’s prime minister 1986-1991 and 1994-1996 and as  Sweden’s deputy prime minister 1982-1986.  Rupiah  Banda (1937-) was the president of  Zambia 2008-2011 and its vice president 2006-2008.  Leif  Silbersky (1938-) is a notable lawyer and author famous for representing so called high-profile cases in  Sweden.  Marianne  Lundius (1949-) is since 2010 the president of the  Supreme court of  Sweden, the first female justice in this position.  Utoni  Nujoma (1952-) was  Namibia’s minister of foreign affairs 2010-2012 and is since 2012 the country’s minister of justice.

Thomas  Thorild (1759-1808) was a notable  Swedish writer, poet, and philosopher who, among many things, was an early proponent of gender equality.  Esaias  Tegnér (1782-1846) was an influential writer, poet, bishop and professor of the  Greek language, perhaps most famous for his work  Frithiofs  Saga.  Viktor  Rydberg (1828-1895) was a notable journalist, writer and researcher, most famous for his works  Tomten and  Singoalla and regarded as one of  Sweden’s most important authors of the 19th century.  Frans G  Bengtsson (1894-1954) was a  Swedish writer and poet famous for his novels  The  Long  Ships (Röde  Orm) which have been translated to at least 23 languages.  Fritiof  Nilsson  Piraten (1895-1972) was a  Swedish lawyer and popular author, known for his works  Bombi  Bitt och  Jag and  Bock i Örtagård.  Hjalmar  Gullberg (1898-1961) was a notable writer and poet who was also the head of the  Swedish  Radio  Theatre 1936-1950.  Ivar  Harrie (1899-1973) was one of the founders of the newspaper  Expressen, as well as its editor in chief 1944-1960.  Hans  Alfredsson (1931-) is a  Swedish comedian, author and actor, sometimes regarded as the foremost representative of the so-called  Lundahumorn (the humour from  Lund).  Axwell ( Born as  Axel  Christofer  Hedfors, 1977-) is a world-renowned DJ, perhaps best known as a member of the trio the  Swedish  House  Maffia.

Hans  Rausing (1926-) was the managing director of  Tetra  Pak 1954-1985 and the company’s chairman 1985-1993, and has been ranked as the third richest man in  Sweden.  Pehr G.  Gyllenhammar (1935-) is a businessman who was the CEO and chairman of  Volvo 1971-1983 and 1983-1993 respectively, the chairman of  Procordia 1990-1992,  Aviva 1998-2005,  Investment AB  Kinnevik 2004-2007, and is the current vice chairman of  Rothschild  Europe.  Bertil  Hult (1941-) founded EF  Education from his dormitory in  Lund  and was the company’s CEO until 2002 and chairman until 2008.  Olof  Stenhammar (1941-) is a  Swedish financier and businessman who founded  Optionsmäklarna, OM, that later changed its name to OMX and today is a part of the NASDAQ OMX  Group.  Michael  Treschow (1943-) is the current chairman of  Unilever and was the CEO of  Atlas  Copco and  Elektrolux 1991-1998 and 1998-2002 respectively, as well as the chairman of  Ericsson 2002-2011.  Stefan  Persson (1947-) was the CEO of H&M 1982-1997 and has been the company’s chairman since 1998 and has been ranked among the top ten richest men in the world.  Dan  Olofsson (1950-) is a  Swedish entrepreneur and philanthropist who founded the company  Sigma and the foundation  Star for  Life and is a large shareholder in the company ÅF.  Anders  Dahlvig (1957-) was the CEO and  President of the IKEA group between 1999 and 2009, during which IKEA experienced an average growth of 11 percent, and is the current chairman of the  New  Wave  Group.  Charlotta  Falvin (1966-) is a  Swedish businesswoman who is the chairman of the companies  Teknopol,  Barista,  Multi-Q and  Ideon AB and the previous CEO of TAT and  Decuma.  Cristina  Stenbeck (1977-) is a  Swedish businesswoman who is the current chairman of  Investment AB  Kinnevik.

Lund  University cooperates with universities on all continents, both in areas of research and student exchange.  Apart from being a member of the prestigious LERU and  Universitas 21 networks, the university participates in the  European  Erasmus and  Nordplus programmes.  It also coordinates several intercontinental projects, mostly through the  Erasmus  Mundus programme.Mälardalen  University ( Swedish: Mälardalens högskola), or MDH, is a university college (högskola) located in Västerås and  Eskilstuna,  Sweden.  It has 13,000 students and around 900 employees, of which 67 are professors. Mälardalen  University is the world's first environmentally certified school according to the international standard ISO 14001.

Since 1  January 2008, Mälardalen  University has been officially organized into four schools:

Prior to 2008, the university college had nine departments:Malmö  University ( Swedish:  Malmö högskola) is a  Swedish university college (with its own directorial board) that was founded in 1998 and is located in  Malmö,  Sweden.  With more than 24,000 students and about 1,600 employees (academic and administrative),  Malmö  University is the ninth largest institute of learning in  Sweden.  It has exchange agreements with more than 240 partner universities around the world and roughly a third of the students have an international background.  Education at  Malmö  University focuses on, among other things, migration, international relations, political science, sustainability, urban studies, and new media and technology.  It often includes elements of internship and project work in close cooperation with external actors.

Located at  Universitetsholmen in the centre of the city, the university has played an important role in the transformation of  Malmö from an industrial town to a centre of learning. A large part of the campus was constructed on grounds which, up to the mid-1980s, belonged to the  Kockums shipyard, which had been a key element of naval-industrial  Malmö.

In mid- June 2016, the  Swedish minister for higher education and research announced that  Malmö  University will be granted full university status on  January 1, 2018.

In 2007, by government initiative, the  Swedish  National  Agency for  Higher  Education employed an international expert committee to find and award the top five highest quality education areas among all universities and colleges in  Sweden.  The  Faculty of  Odontology at  Malmö  University was awarded one of these distinctions (" Centre of  Excellence in  Higher  Education").  The other awards went to  Linköping  University ( Medicine and  Control  Theory/ Vehicle  Engineering),  Royal  Institute of  Technology ( Vehicle  Engineering), and  Umeå  University ( History).

Malmö  University has five faculties, all of which are accredited multi-disciplinary research areas:Norwegian  School of  Theology (1908), formerly the  Free  Faculty of  Theology ( Norwegian:  Det teologiske  Menighetsfakultet) is an accredited  Norwegian  Specialized  University focused on  Theology,  Religion,  Education, and  Social  Studies, located in  Oslo,  Norway.  With three departments (the  Department of  Theology, the  Department of  Religious  Education and  Pedagogical  Studies, and the  Department of  Religion and  Society), the  Norwegian  School of  Theology educates scholars ( Ph D), teachers, ministers, and other professionals at the undergraduate and graduate level for leadership and service both nationally and internationally.

The  Norwegian  School of  Theology strives to continually grow as a leading school of  Theology,  Religious  Studies,  Social  Sciences, and  Religious  Education through research in line with the highest standards of international excellence, the application and dissemination of knowledge, and the pursuit of quality education in an environment of freedom, credibility, and cooperation, devoted to the personal growth and formation of students.

MF was founded in 1907 by a body of people ( Norwegian academics, politicians, clergy and lay people) wanting to build the education and research on the  Holy  Scriptures and the  Lutheran  Confessions.

The main reason for the establishing of the  School was an appointment to a professoriate at the  Faculty of  Theology at  University of  Oslo.  The  Chair of  Systematic  Theology was vacant after the death of  Fredrik  Petersen in 1903, and in 1906 the liberal theologian  Johannes  Ording was appointed to the  Chair.  Ording was appointed after a lengthy debate which almost led to a crisis in the  Government of  Norway.  It was not supported by the other leading professors at the faculty, and  Sigurd  Odland at the  Faculty of  Theology and the  Minister of  Church  Affairs  Christian  Knudsen in the  Government left their positions following the appointment.

Notable people in the society and the  Church gathering around  Odland then took steps to found an independent institution training the clergy.  The founding charter was signed  October 16, 1907, and the  School was opened in the autumn of 1908 with only 8 students (a number that increased to 14 before the end of the first term).  The earliest teachers were  Sigurd  Odland ( New  Testament),  Edvard  Sverdrup ( Church history),  Peter  Hognestad ( Old  Testament),  Ole  Hallesby ( Systematic theology).  From 1919 the members of academic staff was granted the right to call themselves professors.

The  School grew steadily, and in 1913 MF was given the right to offer degrees in  Theology, and also in  Practical  Theology from 1925.  The  School expanded in 1967 and an institute of  Christian  Studies was founded giving a minor, major and a master's degree in  Christian  Studies. 1977 the school started to train  Christian  Educators (catechists).

A major step was the right to award the doctoral degree in 1990.  The  School was the first private school given the right to do this, and in 2005 the school was accredited as a specialized university institution by the  Norwegian authorities.

Beginning in 1907 as a confessional school,today it is an ecumenical inclusive school offering education specific to a number of denominations ( Lutheran,  Methodist,  Catholic,  Salvation  Army and  Pentecostal).

MF is  Norway’s largest school of theology, religion and social sciences, and enrolls approximately 1200 students from both  Norway and other countries.

MF  Norwegian  School of  Theology awards the following degrees: bachelor, master, candidatus/a theologiae and  Ph.D.

It offers the following programmes of study that results in the mentioned degrees:Mid  Sweden  University ( Mittuniversitetet) is a  Swedish state university located in the region around the geographical center of  Sweden, with three campuses in the cities of Östersund,  Sundsvall and (until summer 2016) Härnösand.

Created on 1  July 1993, the institution was originally called  Mid  Sweden  University  College ( Mitthögskolan) and was the result of a merger between the  University  College of  Sundsvall/Härnösand (Högskolan i  Sundsvall/Härnösand) and the  University  College of Östersund (Högskolan i Östersund).  The two university colleges had been founded in 1977, with roots in the  School of social work that started in 1971 in the city of Östersund, and in the  Folk high school teacher seminar and the nautical training/naval school that were launched in 1842 in the city of Härnösand.  On 1  July 1995, the  Sundsvall/Örnsköldsvik and Östersund  Colleges of  Health  Sciences (Vårdhögskolor) were also incorporated.

In 2001  Mid  Sweden  University was awarded university status in the natural sciences area of research including IT, and was thus entitled to issue doctoral degrees.  Employees that were carrying out doctoral studies before then were enrolled at other universities, where they had their main supervisor, but also locally supervised at  Mid  Sweden  University  College.  Effective 1  January 2005, the government of  Sweden granted the institution the right to call itself a university and the school's name changed to  Mid  Sweden  University ( Mittuniversitetet).

Mid  Sweden  University has two authorised areas of research (vetenskapsområden), organized under the  Faculty of  Science,  Technology and  Media (since 2001), and the  Faculty of  Human  Sciences (since 2005) respectively.  Education and research is also organized under the  Faculty of  Educational  Sciences (lärarutbildningsnämnden).

The university was organized into eight departments, of which four are multi-campus departments:[needs update]

The university has offered bachelor's degree (kandidatexamen) and  Swedish master's degree (magisterexamen, one year) in a wide range of subjects since 1994, doctoral degree (doktorsexamen and licentiatexamen) since 2001, and  International master's degree (masterexamen, two years) according to the  Bologna model since 2005.  Mid  Sweden  University also offers professional degrees within  Master of  Science and  Engineering (civilingenjörsexamen, similar to  German  Diploma engineer) since 2003, and as engineer, teacher, nurse, specialist nurse, social worker/welfare officer (socionom), journalist and, from 2008,  Psychologist.

The university's three main campuses have different focuses but with some overlap.  The Härnösand campus has a school of education and offers various courses in the humanities and arts.  The  Sundsvall campus has a wide range of courses and degrees in the technical and natural sciences and journalism.  The Östersund campus focuses on graduate degrees in tourism, health care, social work and public administration.  Campus Östersund also has  Sweden's only ecotechnology programme.  Besides the above, education and research within digital printing technology is located to the city of Örnsköldsvik.

The institution is also well known for a wide range of web-based distance education.

In school year 2009/2010, the university had 21,476 undergraduate students (including master students) with 4,000 of them based in Östersund, 4,000 in  Sundsvall, 2,000 in Härnösand and the rest are learning on distance.  The university has 235 doctoral students, about 800 teachers, of which 80 were employed professors, and totally more than 1000 employees.

Here is a list of people who have received attention from national media, and have studied either at  Mid  Sweden  University, or one of the colleges that later formed  Mid  Sweden  University.Molde  University  College -  Specialized  University in  Logistics ( Norwegian: Høgskolen i  Molde -  Vitenskapelig høgskole i logistikk, abbreviated  Hi M) is a  Norwegian specialized university.  It is located in the town of  Molde in  Molde  Municipality, Møre og  Romsdal county,  Norway.  The university offers higher education in business administration, logistics, information technology, and health sciences.

Degrees are offered both at  Bachelor,  Master of  Science, and  Ph D level.  The institution belonged to the university colleges until 1  January 2010, when it received its new status as a specialized university in logistics.  It is one of nine specialized universities in the  Norwegian higher education system. The main campus is in  Molde, but some study programs are offered in  Kristiansund. Møre  Research  Institute is also located on campus.Narvik  University  College merged with  Ui T -  The  Arctic  University of  Norway ( Norwegian:  Ui T -  Norges arktiske universitet or  Ui T) from 1  January 2016 and is now named  Ui T -  The  Arctic  University of  Norway, campus  Narvik.  Ui T, campus  Narvik has approximately 2000 students and 220 employees.

The campus offers bachelor's degrees in nursing, business and administration as well as engineering, and various master's degrees in  Technology.  It also offers a  Ph D in technology.Nesna  University  College ( Norwegian: Høgskolen i  Nesna or  Hi Ne) is a university college, a  Norwegian state institution of higher education.  It is one of the 24  Norwegian state university colleges, and is located in the municipality of  Nesna in  Helgeland,  Nordland county.  It was established in 1918 as  Nesna  Teachers'  College, and was reorganised as a state university college on 1  August 1994 following the university college reform.  Today, the university college has approximately 1200 students and 130 employees.  The original teachers' college was established in 1918 by the local priest,  Ivar  Hjellvik, making it the second oldest institution of higher education in  Northern  Norway.  This university college has permanent satellite campuses in the neighboring towns of  Mo i  Rana and  Sandnessjøen.  Nesna  University  College hosts the  Nordic  Women's  University.

Nesna  University  College consists of three  Institutes (division).  Each institute is further divided into a set of  Departments.

This institute y is led by  Hanne  Davidsen.  It consists of the  Departments of  English,  Norwegian,  Arts and  Handicrafts,  Religion and  Philosophy,  Music,  Mathematics, the  Natural  Sciences, and  Social  Science.

This institute is led by  Else  Lid.  It consists of the  Nursing  Department.

This institute is led by  Geir  Tore  Klæbo.  It consists of the ICT  Department.Nord- Trøndelag  University  College ( Norwegian: Høgskolen i  Nord- Trøndelag) or  Hi NT is a  Norwegian university college located throughout the county of  Nord- Trøndelag.  Hi NT has about 5,500 students and 440 employees

The school offers higher education within nursing, teaching, business administration, public administration, pharmacy, agriculture, engineering and information technology.  Master degrees are offered within gymnastics (since 1971), interdisciplinary health studies and knowledge management, while a  Master of  Science in public administration is offered in cooperation with  Trondheim  Business  School and  Copenhagen  Business  School.  Campuses are located in  Levanger,  Namsos,  Steinkjer and  Stjørdal, with the administration in  Steinkjer.

The college was created in 1994 as a merger between a number of independent colleges in the county.  Hi NT had a revenue of NOK 330 million in 2008.  Associated with the university college is the research institution  Trøndelag R&D  Institute; they are also their primary owner.  Hi NT took over the  National  Driving  Teacher  School in  Stjørdal on 1  January 2004.

This structure was implemented with the reform of 2007.Noroff  Education is a privately owned and operated university college and vocational school offering a variety of different study programmes including vocational programs and bachelor's degrees.

Noroff  University  College offers currently offer three bachelor's degrees,  Interactive  Media  Games,  Interactive  Media  Animation and  Digital  Forensics.  The  University draws on a number of international staff to deliver educational programs.  These degrees are offered both online and on campus all in  English.  Admission is via both direct admission and the  Norwegian  University admission system samordna opptak 

Vocational programs include design, communication, media, animation, film, music, network and CAD.  Some courses are offered in  Norwegian.

The  Noroff’s main administrative offices are in  Kristiansand,  Norway.  Noroff has campuses in these  Norwegian cities:  Oslo,  Bergen,  Kristiansand and  Stavanger and has an extensive online education business through  Noroff  Online  Studies.

The schools have approx. 850 full-time students on campus and online each year.

The  Noroff  Institute,  Inc. in  Norway was established in 1987.  At that time the school had 120 students in the first class and with focus on providing the business world skilled, creative co-workers through an intensive and practical school year.  In 2001 the  Noroff  Institute had more than 1,000 full-time students and had grown to become one of  Norway’s largest schools in creative production and IT subjects.  At this time the company heavily pursued internet based education in the  Webstudent department.  In 2005 the  Noroff  Institute started four high schools based on media and communication under the trade name ” Mediegymnaset” ( Noroff  High  School) in  Stavanger,  Kristiansand,  Oslo and  Fredrikstad.  In 2007  Noroff  Institute had grown to become one of the largest schools in  Europe within the animation subject 3 D  Design, in addition it had become  Norway’s largest school with regard to the number of students in  Film  Production.

The school is in cooperation with universities abroad in  England,  Wales,  Australia and  South  Africa which makes it possible for the students to complete a bachelor's degree taking the third year out of the country.

Noroff has NOKUT  approved studies which meet qualifications for loans and scholarships in Lånekassen  for  Norwegian students.The  Norwegian  Academy of  Music ( Norwegian:  Norges musikkhøgskole, NMH) is a music conservatory located in  Oslo,  Norway, in the neighbourhood of  Majorstuen,  Frogner.  It is the largest music academy in  Norway and offers the country's highest level of music education.  As a university college, it offers both undergraduate and postgraduate courses.  Throughout the years the  Academy has educated many of  Norway's most renowned musicians.

The  Norwegian  Academy of  Music educates performers, composers and pedagogues, and attempts to lay the foundation for research within various fields of music.  It educates musicians within folk music genres, church music, classical music and, quite notably in later years, a string of successful performers within the jazz realm.

The  Academy is also  Oslo's biggest concert organizer, presenting approximately 300 concerts a year.

As is the case with all schools in the  Norwegian educational system, the school is free of charge.  Students can only be accepted by auditioning and/or other verifiable qualifications.

The  Norwegian  Academy of  Music was established in 1973.  The current  Academy is a result of a merger with the former Østlandets musikkonservatorium in 1996, which was a successor to the music school at  Veitvet founded by  Olav  Selvaag.

The request for a governmental institution for music education goes back to the 19th century.  In 1883  Ludvig  Mathias  Lindeman (father) and  Peter  Brynie  Lindeman (son) started the so-called " School for  Organists" in  Kristiania (former name for  Oslo).  It developed to become the first and biggest conservatory of music in  Norway, and made an important foundation for the  Norwegian  Academy of  Music.  The  Lindeman conservatory was discontinued in 1973.  To honour the memory of the  Lindeman family, the biggest concert hall at the  Academy is named the  Lindeman  Hall, which has a capacity of more than 400 people.The  Royal  Norwegian  Air  Force  Academy (R No AFA) is the  Norwegian  Air  Force’s college which conducts officer training for the R No AF and the  Norwegian  Armed  Forces.  The school was established in 1949 and is one of the  Armed  Forces´ three military academies.  The two others are the  Army  Academy and the  Naval  Academy.  The students at the  Armed  Forces´  Academies are referred to as cadets and have full salary during education.  The cadets at the R No AFA have their own association, the  Cadet  Society ( Kadettsamfunnet).  The R No AFA has a staff of 40 and a student body of 80 cadets and has since 1961 been located in  Trondheim.  The  Commandant of the  Royal  Norwegian  Air  Force  Academy is (from  Autumn 2009)  Colonel  Ole  Asbjørn  Fauske.

The undergraduate program at the R No AFA is a 3-year  Basic  Officer  Education (BAE).  The R No AFA has since 2005 been given status as an independent institution under the  Act relating to  Universities and  University  Colleges.  The 3-year undergraduate program leads to a bachelor's degree in military studies.  Upon completion of the education at the R No AFA the cadets are employed as commissioned officers in the  Royal  Norwegian  Air  Force.

The R No AF As main goal is to educate officers in the use of air power and how to lead air operations.  The core of the undergraduate program is therefore leadership and air power.  These are studied from various academic approaches in a national and international context.  The education is module based and is a combination of academic and military disciplines and practical exercises.  The officer education is founded on the synergy between military skills, academic knowledge, physical capacity and personal development.

The R No AFA, in addition to educating future  Norwegian officers, conducts research and development (R&D).  This activity is done within the main areas of air power (military theory, foreign- and security policy) and leadership.  The R No AFA has its own academic fields within these areas, and contributes with publication and lectures both nationally and internationally.  The R No AFA has a broad and close network with several institutes at the  Norwegian  University of  Science and  Technology (NTNU), and internationally within air power theory.This  Norwegian university, college or other education institution article is a stub.  You can help  Wikipedia by expanding it.The  Norwegian  Military  Academy ( Krigsskolen), in  Oslo, educates officers of the  Norwegian  Army and serves as the  King's  Royal  Guard.  The academy was established in 1750, and is the oldest institution for higher education in  Norway.  The current commandant is  Colonel  Ingrid  Margrethe  Gjerde.

The  Commander-in- Chief of the  Norwegian armed forces,  Hans  Jacob  Arnold  Jensen, sent a request to the  King of  Denmark- Norway in 1750 to establish a school of mathematics in  Christiania.  The  King determined, through the  Royal  Resolution of 16  December 1750, to establish  Den frie matematiske skole ( The  Free  Mathematical  School).  It was the first institution offering higher education in  Norway, but it did not give any extensive military education.  The students were recruited from the officer corps or from nobles in military service.

After a reorganization in 1804, the school became an officer school and an independent unit with its own command.  From 1876-1880 a college degree was required to apply.  The school was first established at  Tollbugata 10.  It was moved to  St.  Olavsplass in 1899 and in 1918 it was moved back to  Tollbugata 10.  In 1969, it was moved to  Linderud, where it is currently located.

In 2003, the  Military  Academy was obligated to follow the  Law of  Universities and granted the right to award bachelor's degrees.

Applicants must be  Norwegian citizens aged at least eighteen, have good health and no criminal record, and must have completed high school and a one-year NCO course.

After being accepted as candidates, all applicants must then complete and pass a two-week field exercise, with physical tests which include a three kilometre run, hang-ups, push-ups, sit-ups, and a 200-metre swimming test.

The  Academy is a part of the  Norwegian  Army.  The  Academy consists of 7 courses. 1 course is located at  Terningmoen, with a yearlong NCO course and prep course. 5 course are located at  Linderud, with general education, engineering education and a qualifying course.  The logistical course is located in  Bergen.

The  Academy offers a general education as well as a specialized engineering and logistical education.  In addition, several civilian studies are available.

The general course last for 3 years and is divided into the fields of military power, leadership, language and inter-cultural communication, strategy and physical training.  When finished, the cadets will serve as platoon commanders.

The engineering course last for 3 years and is divided into the fields of military building techniques, military geography, mathematics, statistics, physics, chemistry and computer science.  When finished, the cadets will serve as platoon commanders.

The logistics course last for 3 years and is divided into the fields of methodology, logistics, law and economy.  When finished, the cadets will serve as logistical officers.

The NCO course last for 1 year and is divided into the fields of military leadership, tactics and operations, physical training, language and mathematics.  After completing the course, the cadets can start a 3-year course.

The qualifying course last for 6 months and includes the fields of military power and operations, military leadership, methodology and physical training.

During the courses, the cadets complete several field exercises to train leadership, tactics and decision-making.  One of the infamous field exercises is the combat course, conducted to test the limits of the cadets in a combat environment over a long period of time.  The exercise must be completed, and certain demands must be met before the cadets qualify the 3-year courses.

The classes have a tradition of taking names from  Norwegian officers, inspiring the cadets to follow in their paths.  The  Norwegian  Military  Academy performs ceremonial duties for the  King of  Norway. A parade is conducted every 16  December to celebrate the establishment of the  Academy.  In addition, the  Academy conducts a parade 8  May, to celebrate the  Liberation  Day or  Veteran  Day.The  Royal  Norwegian  Naval  Academy (R No NA,  Sjøkrigsskolen in  Norwegian) is located at  Laksevåg in  Bergen.  It was formally established 27  October 1817 in  Frederiksvern.  The institution educates officers for the  Royal  Norwegian  Navy.

The predecessor of the  Norwegian  Naval  Academy was the Søcadet- Akademiet, which was established in 1701 in  Copenhagen for the education of naval officers for the  Danish- Norwegian naval forces.  After the union between  Denmark and  Norway dissolved in 1814, the  Kongelige  Norske Søcadet- Institut ( Royal  Norwegian  Sea  Cadet  Institute) was opened in 1817 at the main naval base at  Fredriksvern.  In 1864 both the main base and the  Sea  Cadet  Institute were moved to  Horten, where the operations continued until 1940.  During the subsequent  German occupation of  Norway, a temporary  Naval  Academy was established in  London in 1941.  After the war the  Academy was first located in  Oslo, but in 1960 it was relocated to the present site in  Laksevåg,  Bergen.

The R No NA has a status of an independent institution under the  Norwegian  Act on  Universities and  University  Colleges.  It has been accredited to develop study programmes at the undergraduate level, to award bachelor's degrees, and to evaluate degrees from other institutions.

Master’s degrees are awarded at the  Norwegian  Defence  University  College in  Oslo, but officers may continue with graduate studies also at civilian universities.

In 2013, the  Academy offered six programmes leading to the  Bachelor of  Military  Studies degree, where of three programmes leads to a bachelor's degree in engineering.The  Norwegian  Police  University  College ( Norwegian:  Politihøgskolen; PHS) is a public university college located in  Oslo,  Kongsvinger,  Stavern and  Bodø,  Norway.  It offers education for the police force of  Norway, including a three-year basic education and a possible expansion with a  Master's degree. 720 students are accepted at the  Bachelor level each year.  The university college also conducts research in relevant areas including law, police science, criminology, psychology and sociology.  Unlike other public colleges, it is owned by the  Norwegian  Ministry of  Justice and the  Police.

The school dates back to the organized education of the police force in  Oslo in 1889, but was created as a separate school in 1920.  It was called  The  State  Police  School and had the status of etatsskole (agency school) until 1992, when it was organized as a university college.  The campus at Mørkved in  Bodø supplemented the one at  Majorstuen in  Oslo in 1997.  It received a full accreditation as a university college (høgskole) in 2004 (from 1992 to 2004, it only had accreditation for its programmes, not a full institutional accreditation).The  Norwegian  School of  Economics ( Norwegian:  Norges  Handelshøyskole) or NHH is a business school situated in  Bergen,  Norway.  Opened in 1936 by  King  Haakon VII, it is  Norway's oldest business school and has since its foundation been a leading  Norwegian teaching and research institution in the fields of economics and business administration.  The school celebrated its 75th anniversary in 2011.

NHH has a strong international orientation.  The school participates in exchange programs with more than 130 foreign institutions in over 30 countries, and around 40 percent of the school's students spend at least one semester on exchange.  The school is member of CEMS ( The  Global  Alliance for  Management  Education) and the  Partnership in  International  Management (PIM) network, and is accredited by EQUIS.

Admission to NHH is the most selective in its field in  Norway.  For seven years in a row (2007–13), the NHH undergraduate programme received more applications than any other undergraduate study programme in  Norway, and around 10,8% of applicants are admitted annually.  In 2016, NHH received 4343 applications for 470 spots in its undergraduate program.

NHH has changed much since it was first opened.  Norway's first business school is now part of a global network universities and business schools.  This has been achieved over the last 100 years, with much work being done before the doors opened in 1936.

The business communities in  Oslo and  Bergen began discussing the establishment of a  Norwegian business school at the end of the 19th century. A number of schools had been opened across  Europe and during the early 20th century several business schools were established in  Scandinavia based on the  German handelshochschule (business school) model.  Amongst them, the  Stockholm  School of  Economics and the  Swedish  School of  Economics and  Business  Administration ( Hanken) in  Helsinki were both established in 1909, followed by the  Helsinki  School of  Economics in 1911 and  Copenhagen  Business  School in 1917.  In 1917,  Norway's parliament (the  Storting) passed a resolution to establish a  Norwegian business school.

After much lobbying and hard work, especially by  Kristoffer  Lehmkuhl, NHH was finally opened by  King  Haakon VII on  Monday the  September 7, 1936.  This was 10 years before the  University of  Bergen was established.  The strong involvement of the business community in  Bergen had ensured that not only was the school established, but that it was established in  Bergen and was closely linked to business community from the very start.

When NHH first opened, the academic staff consisted of fewer than ten people and sixty students were enrolled each year.  The first degree course offered was the  Handelsdiplom (business diploma) and graduates received the title  Handelskandidat (business graduate).  This was initially a two-year course and, starting in 1938, a one-year additional course was offered to candidates who wanted to become teachers.  In 1946 the  Handelsdiplom course was extended to three years.

After the  Second  World  War,  American influence became more important and also started to influence NHH to a greater extent.  Graduates and staff began to go to the US to continue their studies and work for a period, a trend that greatly increased in the 1960s and 1970s.  By the early 1950s the need for a doctoral programme at NHH had grown.  In 1956, NHH received permission from the  Norwegian government to award doctorates and in 1957 the first doctoral candidate graduated from NHH.

By the late 1950s NHH had outgrown its original premises and work began on developing a new campus for the school at  Sandviken, just outside  Bergen city centre.  In 1963, the school moved to its new campus, an event which in many ways marked the transition to a new period characterised by a rapid increase in the number of students as well as teachers.  The new campus provided a large increase in capacity and the annual intake of students increased from 60 to over 200.

An important feature of this period was the growth and development of the faculty.  The new facilities made it possible to employ many new, talented people and the importance of research as well as teaching was strengthened.  Many successful graduates went to the US to study for doctorates and came back to NHH with international experience and a more research based focus.  Many faculty members took advantage of sabbaticals to study and continue their research overseas, many textbooks were published and the volume of publications in international journals increased significantly. A driving force behind this expansion and internationalisation of research was  Professor  Karl  Borch.

During this time  Professor  Jan  Mossin's seminal paper " Equilibrium in a  Capital  Asset  Market" was published in  Econometrica, contributing significantly to the development of the capital asset pricing model (CAPM).  About the same time as  Mossin returned to NHH from  Carnegie  Mellon with his doctorate, future  Nobel laureate  Finn E.  Kydland went to the same university for his doctoral studies.  Most of the US educated doctoral graduates came back to NHH to teach and continue their research, but some stayed in the US and a few (like  Kydland) returned to NHH only to later go back to the US to continue their work.

As the faculty grew and developed so did the academic offerings, with several advanced level courses established.  In 1963 the name of the  Handelsdiplom degree was changed to siviløkonom, with graduate receiving the same title. A master level programme, høyere avdelingstudium (HAS), was introduced in 1972 as a preparation for siviløkonom students wishing to continue on to doctoral studies; and in 1973  Professor  Dag  Coward established a master level programme for students wishing to specialise in auditing, accounting and the financial management of firms, the høyere revisorstudium (HRS).  In 1975 the siviløkonom degree course was extended to a four-year programme.

In the early 1980s it was realised that the doctoral programme required updating and a new, structured  Ph D programme was introduced involving taught courses in addition to the research and writing of a thesis.  This new  Ph D programme continued the focus on research at NHH, rather than just teaching.  The first candidate to graduate from the new  Ph D programme did so in 1985 and the annual number of graduates rose from 1 in 1985 to 12 in 1990.

The focus on expansion and internationalisation of research was recognised in 1984 as NHH was ranked 7th globally and 3rd in  Europe in the  American  Economic  Review amongst economics schools or departments in non- English speaking countries by publications in leading journals.

During this period, close relations with international research environments were also established.  The international activities at the school have increased considerably and the international focus has become stronger over the years.  In 1984 NHH established their first international exchange agreement with the  Stockholm  School of  Economics, and in 1986 NHH became the first institution in  Norway to offer a master's degree programme taught entirely in  English - the  Master of  International  Business (MIB).  Following this, greater emphasis has been placed on exchange arrangements for students, and the school joined the prestigious  Community of  European  Management  Schools (CEMS) and the  Erasmus programme in 1992 and the global  Partnership in  International  Management (PIM) network in 1995.

Student and staff numbers continued to rise throughout the 1980s and 1990s.  By 1985 there were 1670 students and 198 members of staff in total.

The siviløkonom qualification was extended to 5 years in 2003.  In line with the  Bologna declaration, it now comprises a 3-year  Bachelor of  Science in  Economics and  Business  Administration combined with a 2-year  Master of  Science in  Economics and  Business  Administration.

NHH alumnus and  Adjunct  Professor  Finn E.  Kydland was awarded the  Nobel  Memorial  Prize in  Economic  Sciences in 2004, together with  Professor  Edward C.  Prescott of  Arizona  State  University.  Kydland was giving a lecture at NHH when news of the award arrived.  Prescott was a  Visiting  Professor of  Economics at NHH in 1974-75.

In 2007 NHH announced the launching of a new master programme taught fully in  English, the M Sc in  Energy,  Natural  Resources and the  Environment.

Today, NHH is part of a global network of business schools and universities.  International partner institutions include:

On  June 1, 2011, the school simplified and changed its  English name from the  Norwegian  School of  Economics and  Business  Administration to the  Norwegian  School of  Economics.

The school comprises over 2,800 full-time students and a total staff of over 330. NHH, together with two affiliated institutions, AFF ( Administrative  Research  Institute) and SNF, form the largest centre for research and education within the fields of economics and business administration in  Norway.

NHH annually admits 450 student to its sole undergraduate programme in  Economics and  Business  Administration.  The programme has for many years been the most popular undergraduate study programme in  Norway, with more than 2000 "first priority" applicants annually and an admissions rate of around 20%.  The school attracts applicants from all parts of  Norway and aims to have a varied student body. NHH has an equal amount of men and women as of 2012.

As a  Norwegian public institution of higher education, NHH admits its students through  Samordna opptak where applicants are ranked on a point scheme and the qualified candidates with the most points are granted admission.

Undergraduate NHH students are secured transfers to the school's master's programmes after completing the bachelor's degree.  Most student take advantage of this policy.  In addition, students from other universities and business schools are admitted to the master's and doctoral programmes, and make up the graduate student body.

The school offers one three-year undergraduate programme in  Economics and  Business  Administration, taught in  Norwegian.  Most students continue their studies with a two-year master's degree, which together with the undergraduate degree completes the requirements for the  Norwegian siviløkonom title. NHH offers eight master's profiles:

Additionally, NHH offers a master's programme in  Accounting and  Auditing, as well as the CEMS  Master's in  International  Management which is currently ranked as the world's second best  Master's in  Management programme by the  Financial  Times.

The NHH  Ph D programme offers specialisations in five fields:

NHH is part of six double degree arrangements:

In 2012, NHH was ranked among the 101-150th best universities worldwide in  Economics/ Business by the  Academic  Ranking of  World  Universities. in 2013, NHH dropped to the 151-200 bracket in the same ranking.  In 2012, NHH was ranked as the 8th best  European school in economics in the ranking " Top 10s by subject" by FT.com.

In 2013, NHH was ranked as the 46th best  European business school by the  Financial  Times.

Like all public institutions of higher education in  Norway, NHH does not charge tuition fees.  However, a small semester fee of NOK 490 (roughly US$80) is charged.  This money helps fund the  Student  Welfare  Organisation in  Bergen, which subsidises kindergartens, health services, housing and cultural initiatives.

The  Student  Association at NHH (NHHS) has groups to accommodate many student interests.  As would be expected for a leading business school, NHHS has many groups involved with economics and business issues.  These groups maintain contact with the business community and serve to stimulate interest in and improve knowledge of various sectors  Norwegians and international business.  This is achieved through conferences, seminars, company visits, excursions in  Norway and abroad and trainee programs in various businesses.  The  Student  Association is led by a board of seven people -  Kjernestyret.

NHH alumni hold several important positions in  Norwegian business and politics.  Eldar Sætre is CEO of  Statoil,  Norway's largest company and the largest offshore oil and gas company in the world.  Jon  Fredrik  Baksaas is CEO of  Telenor,  Norway's second largest company and one of the world's largest mobile phone operators.  Siv  Jensen is  Norway's  Minister of  Finance and  Yngve  Slyngstad is CEO of  Norges  Bank  Investment  Management (NBIM), the part of the  Norwegian  Central  Bank responsible for managing  Norway's sovereign wealth fund.The  Norwegian  School of  Sport  Sciences ( Norwegian:  Norges idrettshøgskole, NIH) is a public university located at  Sognsvann in  Oslo,  Norway.  It has the national responsibility for education and research related within sport sciences.  It provides education at the  Bachelor,  Master and  Doctorate levels.

In 1870 the government established  The  Gymnastical  Central  School for  Athletics and  Weapon  Use.  It changed its name to  The  State  Gymnastics  School in 1915.  On 1  June 1968 it got its present name and was granted university status.  The first  Master student was educated in 1973 and the first  Ph D awarded in 1990.The  Norwegian  University of  Life  Sciences ( Norwegian:  Norges miljø- og biovitenskapelige universitet, NMBU) is a public university located in Ås,  Norway.

It is located at Ås in  Akershus, near  Oslo, and at  Adamstuen in  Oslo and has around 5000 students.  The university is known for its beautiful campuses, with spectacular, big and old trees, as well as ponds, flowers and bushes.

Established in 1859 as the  Norwegian  Agricultural  Postgraduate  College, it became a scientific university college (vitenskapelig høgskole) in 1897 and received university status in 2005.  Prior to 2005 it was known as the  Norwegian  College of  Agriculture ( Norges landbrukshøgskole, NLH).  Only a few years later, in 2014 the university merged with the  Norwegian  School of  Veterinary  Science (NVH) in  Oslo, and is today known as the  Norwegian  University of  Life  Sciences.  Having a history since 1859, it is the second oldest institution of higher education in  Norway, after the  University of  Oslo.  It is also the only educational institution in  Norway to provide veterinary education.

The university is organized into three faculties and 13 departments:

It also includes six centers:

Ph D studies  Doctoral programmes are based on a continuation in the  Norwegian degree system from a master's degree or an equivalent qualification. A doctoral programme consists of course work, (an) individual research project(s) and a dissertation, which is defended in a formal oral examination.

Students do not have to pay tuition.  The  Norwegian government subsidizes all higher education.

NMBU has exchange agreements with more than 93 universities worldwide, including six  Nordic, 44  European and eight  North  American institutions.  Institutional partnerships with universities in developing countries are carried out mainly through the  Department of  International  Environmental and  Development  Studies/ Noragric.  The objectives of NMBU’s cooperation with universities abroad include building strong academic networks, facilitating international exchange and contributing to the competence building with universities in the south.

Research at NMBU includes basic research and applied research, providing a foundation for education, research training and research geared towards the private sector.  Research is mainly focused on  Environmental  Sciences,  Veterinary medicine,  Food  Science,  Biotechnology,  Aquaculture and  Business  Development.  It also has a strong interdisciplinary and international approach.  There is a strong link between research and the NMBU study programs; students at the  Master and  Ph D level are often involved in many research activities.  Research is also a joint venture between research institutes in Ås.  Together, the university and the institutions represent the largest research environments for life sciences in  Norway. NMBU is also active through national alliances with other institutions and through institutional partnerships with universities in developing countries. NMBU’s health-related research is linked to healthy food, clean water and the environment and the many related challenges in developing countries.

The  Pentagon, a building south of the NMBU campus, houses students.  Other students live in private housing.

University  Foundation for  Student  Life in Ås ( SiÅs)  The  University  Foundation for  Student  Life in Ås was established in 1955 under and in pursuance of the  Act of 28.06.96 of  Student unions.  SiÅs shall:

SiÅs is in charge of the student accommodations, sports center, bookstore, print shop, restaurant and cafeterias, nursery, kiosk and booking of meeting and function rooms.

Studensamfunnet in Ås  The NMBU student community consists of 60-70 clubs and societies that both alone and together offer most students unique and social activities with many challenges.  Studentsamfunnet in Ås is the oldest and most powerful society that owns most of the buildings that bring most of the social activities together.

The  Student  Board  The  Student  Board (NSO Ås) deals with everything that concerns student democracy, including daily contact with  SiÅs and contact with the different student representatives in various boards, assemblies and committees.  The  Student  Board is the administrative head of the  Student  Parliament, but it is the  Student  Parliament that controls the  Student  Board.  The  Student  Committee consists of elected representatives from each department plus elected members of the  Student  Board.  The highest body in the student democracy is the general assembly ( Allmøtet).  Here, all students have speaking and voting rights.  Representatives to the  Student  Board are elected at the general assembly, which is held every autumn and spring. at the department general assemblies, student representatives on department level are elected.  All students have speaking and voting rights on their department’s general assemblies.

International  Student  Union  The  International  Student  Union (ISU) is an organization composed of international students that attend various universities and Høgskolen throughout  Norway and who have particular interest in student politics and international student rights. ISU is a democratic, non-profit, non-religious, multicultural and non-partisan organization that seeks to serve and promote the interests of foreign students who are studying in  Norway. ISU represents the voice of international students in political and academic matters and has to main aims:

ISU also promotes the relationship between  Norwegian and international students and works to sustain the connections with local student organizations.  Membership with ISU is free and open to all international students in  Norway.  Elections are held once a year in  September and all international students have the right o run for office and vote.  The members of the board meet in the student post office approximately every two weeks after classes and work as a team to discuss many different aspects of the international student life. ISU is a democracy and each member has the right to propose, suggest and advise.  The highest branch of the ISU is the  National  Assembly that carries out the working plans and approves budgets for all of the ISU branches.  Local branches have the autonomy to decide the conditions for their own activities.The  Norwegian  University of  Science and  Technology ( Norwegian:  Norges teknisk-naturvitenskapelige universitet, abbreviated NTNU) is a public research university with campuses in the cities of  Trondheim,  Gjøvik and Ålesund in  Norway. NTNU is the largest of the eight universities in  Norway, and, as its name suggests, has the main national responsibility for higher education in engineering and technology.  In addition to engineering and the natural and physical sciences, the university offers advanced degrees in other academic disciplines ranging from the social sciences, the arts, medicine and health sciences, teacher education, architecture and fine art.

NTNU was formed in 1996 by the merger of the  Norwegian  Institute of  Technology (NTH), the  Norwegian  College of  General  Sciences (AVH), the  Museum of  Natural  History and  Archaeology (VM), the  Faculty of  Medicine (DMF), the  Trondheim  Academy of  Fine  Art and the  Trondheim  Conservatory of  Music ( Mi T).  Prior to the 1996 merger, NTH, AVH, DMF, and VM together constituted the  University of  Trondheim (U Ni T), which was a much looser organization.  However, the university's roots go back to 1760, with the foundation of the  Trondheim  Society, which in 1767 became the  Royal  Norwegian  Society of  Sciences and  Letters.  In 2010 the society, and NTNU, as the society's museum now is part of the university, celebrated its 250th anniversary to commemorate this history. NTNU itself celebrated the 100th anniversary of the foundation of NTH this year.  The centennial was also celebrated by the publication of several books, among them a history of the university, entitled " Turbulens og tankekraft.  Historien om NTNU"  which translates as " Turbulence and mindpower:  The history of NTNU".

In 2014, the  Norwegian  Ministry of  Education and  Research asked the country's universities and university colleges to provide suggestions, observations and ideas for restructuring  Norway's institutions of higher education.  The context for the request was that the  Norwegian government wanted to cut back on the number of institutions in the sector.

The NTNU board decided on 28  January 2015 that NTNU should merge with the  University  Colleges of Sør- Trøndelag, Ålesund and  Gjøvik to form a new university that would retain the university's former name, the  Norwegian  University of  Science and  Technology.  The merger, which went into effect in  January, 2016, made NTNU into  Norway's single largest university.

NTNU has several campuses in  Trondheim, with  Gløshaugen, for engineering and sciences, and  Dragvoll, for humanities and social sciences as the main two.  Other campuses include  Tyholt for marine technology, Øya for medicine,  Kalvskinnet for archaeology,  Midtbyen for the music conservatory and  Nedre  Elvehavn for the art academy.  With the 2016 merger, NTNU added campuses elsewhere in  Trondheim as well as in  Gjøvik and Ålesund.

NTNU has long considered the possibility of bringing the activity of the two largest campuses together at or near NTNU's  Gløshaugen campus.  In 2013 the  Rector initiated a vision project, with the charge to define different perspectives on future development from a 50-year perspective.

That same year, 2013, the  Norwegian  Ministry of  Education and  Research initiated a choice of concept study for the future co-localization of NTNU's two main campuses in  Trondheim.

The reports were presented in 2014, and both recommended bringing  Dragvoll and  Gløshaugen together, and better integrating them with the city. A unanimous NTNU board endorsed the recommendations in the vision report.

NTNU is governed by a board of 11 members.  This is according to the  Norwegian  Act relating to universities and university colleges.  Two of the members are elected by and among the students.

Academic and administrative staff contribute 6,700 FTE of which 4053 are in education and research and 39 per cent are women. NTNU has more than 100 laboratories and is at any time running some 2,000 research projects.  Students and staff can take advantage of roughly 300 research agreements or exchange programs with 58 institutions worldwide.

As of the 2016 merger, the university consists of 14 faculties and 70 departments, with approximately 39,000 students:

The  Faculty of  Architecture and  Fine  Art has five departments:

The  Faculty of  Engineering  Science and  Technology has eleven departments:

The  Faculty of  Humanities has six departments:

The  Faculty of  Natural  Sciences and  Technology has six departments:

The  Faculty of  Information  Technology,  Mathematics and  Electrical  Engineering has six departments:

The  Faculty of  Medicine is integrated with  St.  Olavs  Hospital,  Trondheim  University  Hospital, and is located in  Campus Øya in  Trondheim.  Its main focus areas of research are translational research, medical technology and health surveys, biobanks and registers.  The faculty has about 350 master’s degree students, 250 bachelor’s degree students, 720 medical students and more than 500 students attending other courses.

The  Faculty of  Medicine has seven departments:

The  Faculty of  Social  Sciences and  Technology  Management has eleven departments:

The 2016 merger brought three new faculties and one new school to the university from the former Sør- Trøndelag  University  College.  These are:

NTNU's overall budget in 2011/2012 was 673 million euros, most of which came from the  Norwegian  Ministry of  Education.  Funding from the  Research  Council of  Norway (NFR) totaled 82 million euros, a decrease from 2010/2011 of 4.4 percent.

The university is home to four of 21  Norwegian  Centers of  Excellence.  These are the  Centre for  Biodiversity  Dynamics,  Centre for  Ships and  Ocean  Structures, the  Centre for the  Biology of  Memory and the  Centre for  Quantifiable  Quality of  Service in  Communication  Systems.  The  Centre for the  Biology of  Memory is also one of four  Kavli  Neuroscience  Institutes.  In 2012  Prime  Minister  Jens  Stoltenberg opened the  Norwegian  Brain  Centre as an outgrowth of NTNU's  Kavli  Institute  one of the largest research laboratories of its kind in the world.

In 2008 NTNU's digital institutional repository was founded.  The intention was to establish a full-text archive for the documentation of the scientific output of the institution, and to make as much as possible of the material available online, both nationally and internationally.

In addition to the research articles and books, intended for academics and researchers both inside and outside the university, NTNU disseminates news to the public about the institution and its research and results.

Universitetsavisa, which translates  The  University  Newspaper, is the news and discussion paper of the university, available only in  Norwegian.  It was established in 1991.  For a period it existed in both printed and digital editions, but since 2002 it is only available online.

GEMINI publishes research news from NTNU and the independent research group SINTEF in both  English and  Norwegian.  It is published in both a printed and a digital version.

The  Norwegian  University of  Science and  Technology publishes the  Nordic  Journal of  Science and  Technology.

NTNU was ranked 45th in  Europe and 150th in the  World in  January 2015 in the  Webometrics  Ranking of  World  Universities for its presence on the web.

According to  Top  Universities  Guide NTNU is ranked 151st in  University  Subject  Rankings while being among the top 246  Universities in the overall world ranking.  Rankings by  Subject 2014:

It is ranked in top 276 universities of the world according to  Times  Higher  Education  Guide 

NTNU specializes in technology and the natural sciences, but also offers a range of bachelor's, master's and doctoral programmes in the humanities, social sciences, economics and public and business administration, and aesthetic disciplines.  The university also offers professional degree programmes in medicine, psychology, architecture, the fine arts, music, and teacher education, in addition to technology.

According to the  Norwegian  Social  Science  Data  Services, NTNU had 84,797 applicants in 2011 and a total student population of 19,054, of whom 9,062 were women.  There were 6,193 students enrolled in the  Faculty of  Social  Sciences and  Technology  Management, 3,518 students enrolled in the  Faculty of  Engineering  Science and  Technology, 3,256 students enrolled in the  Faculty of  Humanities, 3,090 students enrolled in the  Faculty of  Information  Technology,  Mathematics and  Electrical  Engineering, 2,014 students enrolled in the  Faculty of  Natural  Sciences and  Technology, 1,071 enrolled in the  Faculty of  Medicine, and 605 enrolled in the  Faculty of  Architecture and  Fine  Art.

About 3,500 bachelor's and master's degrees are awarded each year, and more than 5,500 participate in further education programmes.

NTNU has more than 300 cooperative or exchange agreements with 60 universities worldwide, and several international student exchange programmes.  There are, at any given time, around 2,600 foreign students at the university.

NTNU welcomes students from all over the world, and offers more than 30 master’s programmes that are taught in  English.  Ph D programs are open to qualified applicants, and are paid staff positions that give candidates specific workplace rights and benefits under  Norwegian law.

NTNU students have a clear presence in the city of  Trondheim.  The most famous student organization is the  Studentersamfundet i  Trondhjem, also known as "the red round house" after its architectural form; every other year it organizes a cultural festival UKA.  Another festival organized by students is the  International  Student  Festival in  Trondheim IS Fi T, which awards a student peace prize and draws internationally known speakers. EMECS-thon is a student driven embedded systems marathon competition, organized by students from NTNU and implemented in some of the top universities worldwide, where participants have 48 hours to develop an embedded project from scratch.  The student sports organization, NTNUI, has roughly 10 000 members in its many branches, with the largest groups including orienteering, cross-country and telemark skiing, but there are also groups for sports less common in  Norway, like  American football, lacrosse and aikido. A cabin and cottage organization owns several cabins in the countryside, available for students wishing to spend a few days away.  There are also student fraternities, some of which conduct voluntary hazing rituals, which provide contact with potential employers and for social interaction between students.  There are also alumni associations; religious and political organizations; clubs devoted to various topics such as innovation, human rights, beer, oatmeal, anime and computers; and  The  Association for  Various  Associations, which is a parody of the university's large number of student organizations.  University recently started to offer "roof over your head" guarantee to new coming student to  Trondheim until they find proper housing.

The  Gløshaugen campus of the university has been filmed with a quadcopter and may be seen as  You Tube video here 

In 2006, NTNU  Alumni was founded, primarily as a meeting place and professional network for former students and staff of NTNU and its precursors.  The network is now also open to current employees and students.  In 2014 the number of members wa around 30,000

NTNU annually awards honorary doctorates to scientists and others who have made an extraordinary contribution to science or culture.Oslo and  Akershus  University  College ( Norwegian: Høgskolen i  Oslo og  Akershus, abbr.  Hi OA) is the largest state university college in  Norway, with more than 16,000 students and 1,700 employees.  Hi OA has higher education programs at bachelor's, master's and  Ph D level.  It offers studies and conducts research in health professions, social sciences, engineering, liberal arts, and other fields.

Hi OA was established in 2011 following the merger of  Oslo  University  College and  Akershus  University  College, which were themselves the results of many previous mergers.  In 2014 the  Work  Research  Institute and  Norwegian  Social  Research were also merged into the institution, and from 2016 it also incorporates the  Norwegian  Institute for  Urban and  Regional  Research and the  National  Institute for  Consumer  Research.  Most of the university college is located in the city centre of  Oslo along the  Pilestredet street, with subsidiary campuses in  Sandvika and  Kjeller in  Akershus.

The language of instruction is  Norwegian, and certain courses are taught in  English, both on bachelor's degree and master's degree level and to some extent on  Ph D level.

Oslo and  Akershus  University  College uses all three academic career pathways in  Norway.  The main career pathway includes the ranks assistant professor, associate professor and professor.  The research career pathway is mainly used at the  Work  Research  Institute,  Norwegian  Social  Research, the  Norwegian  Institute for  Urban and  Regional  Research and the  National  Institute for  Consumer  Research, and includes the ranks researcher, senior researcher and research professor, which correspond directly to assistant professor, associate professor and professor and have similar promotion criteria.  The teaching career pathway is still used by the original university college, and includes the ranks first lecturer and docent as alternatives to the associate professor and professor ranks.

Curt  Rice, an  American linguist who was formerly a professor at the  University of  Tromsø, became rector on  August 1, 2015.  He is not the first non- Norwegian to head a  Norwegian university or college however, as the  University of  Oslo has been headed by the  French-born  Oscar I of  Sweden and various  Swedish statesmen as chancellors.

Centre for the  Study of  Professions (CSP,  Norwegian:  Senter for profesjonsstudier) was formally opened in 1999 in order to stimulate research and critical reflection within the study of professions.

The study of professions includes several areas of research, such as:

CSP develops the study of professions as a multidisciplinary field of research emphasising comparative approaches.  The goal of CSP is to become a leading research facility within the study of professions in the  Nordic countries.

CSP carries out a number of projects and activities, among them

CSP currently employs approximately 40 professors, researchers, fellows and administrative staff. CSP also hosts the open access journal  Professions and  Professionalism.The  Oslo  National  Academy of the  Arts ( Norwegian:  Kunsthøgskolen i  Oslo, K Hi O) is a university college in  Oslo,  Norway, that provides education in visual arts, design and performing arts.  It is one of two public institutes of higher learning in  Norway that teaches in visual arts and design, the other is the  Bergen  National  Academy of the  Arts in  Bergen.

Oslo  National  Academy of the  Arts was ranked among the worlds 60 best design programs by bloomberg  Businessweek.

The  Academy was established in 1996 through the amalgamation of five independent colleges:

These former colleges are now organised in three faculties: the  Faculty of  Design, the  Faculty of  Performing  Arts and the  Faculty of  Visual  Arts.

The  Oslo  National  Academy of the  Arts has so far been housed in several buildings in  Oslo.  In the summer of 2003, the  Faculty of  Performing  Arts was moved to the new campus at the old textile plant  Seilduken at  Grünerløkka in central  Oslo.  In the summer of 2010, the remaining faculties joined.

The  Academies current location at the former  Seilduken plant is marked by a blue ceramic  Oslo  Byes  Well plaque, located at the entrance to the buildings car park.  The plaque reads ' Society for  Oslo  Byes  Well.  Christiania  Seildugsfabrik.  Founded in 1856,  Discounted from 1960.  Architect P.H  Holtermann'.

The  Faculty of  Visual  Arts included two professorships from the start.  Jan  Valentin Sæther occupied the professorship for painting from 1996 until 2002, whereas  Istvan  Lisztes was the first professor of sculpture.The  Oslo  School of  Architecture and  Design, AHO, is an autonomous institution within the  Norwegian university system.  The  School offers a unique research-based education with a strong international standing within the fields of architecture, urbanism, design and landscape architecture

AHO offers three full-time masters's programmes:  Master of  Architecture,  Master of  Design and  Master of  Landscape  Architecture - the last programme is offered in  Oslo and at the  Arctic  University in  Tromsø.  The school also offers post-professional  Master’s courses in  Urbanism and  Architectural  Conservation. AHO offers a single type of doctoral degree, the  Doctor of  Philosophy.

The school was established directly after  World  War II as a «crisis course» for students of architecture who were unable to finish their degree due to the outbreak of the war.  Prior to this, the only  Norwegian option for obtaining an architectural degree was at  Norwegian  Institute of  Technology (NTH) in  Trondheim.

All through the first half of the twentieth century, a group of architects had worked hard towards the establishment of an architectural school that was more aesthetically and academically oriented than a polytechnic education.  The school was finally located in  Oslo, since it was generally felt that the capital had access to many of the nation’s best practicing architects.

In the beginning, the architectural course was part of the  Norwegian  National  Academy of  Craft and  Art  Industry.  In 1961  The  Oslo  School of  Architecture was established as an independent school, and, from 1968, located in  St.  Olavs gate.

In 1979, the first formal education in industrial design in  Norway was offered as a two-year postgraduate study. A full degree program was established in 1983, and in 1989 this was placed under the direction of  The  Norwegian  Arts and  Crafts  School.  Then, in 1996, the  Institute of  Industrial  Design became part of the  Oslo  School of  Architecture.

Master of  Landscape  Architecture became part of AHO’s master’s programmes in 2004.  In 2005,  The  Oslo  School of  Architecture changed name to  The  Oslo  School of  Architecture and  Design.  In 2009, the  Institute of  Industrial  Design changed its name to the  Institute of  Design.

In 2001 the school moved to new facilities at  Vulkan, a revitalised industrial area near the  Aker  River.  In an central, innovative, creative and cultural part of the city.  The school lays adjacent to the  Oslo  National  Academy of the  Arts and the recently opened  Food  Hall.  In 2005 the school changed its name to  The  Oslo  School of  Architecture and  Design.The  Royal  College of  Music,  Stockholm ( Swedish  Kungliga  Musikhögskolan i  Stockholm) is the oldest institution of higher education in music in  Sweden, founded in 1771 as the conservatory of the  Royal  Swedish  Academy of  Music.  The conservatory was made independent of the  Academy in 1971.The  Royal  Institute of  Art ( Swedish:  Kungliga  Konsthögskolan) is an institution in  Stockholm,  Sweden for higher education in art, founded in 1735.  The school was part of the  Royal  Swedish  Academy of  Arts, until 1978 when it was made independent.  It is under the supervision of the  Ministry of  Education.KTH  Royal  Institute of  Technology (KTH,  Swedish:  Kungliga  Tekniska högskolan) is a university in  Stockholm,  Sweden. KTH was founded in 1827 as  Sweden's first polytechnic and is one of  Scandinavia's largest (by some definitions) institutions of higher education in technology. KTH accounts for one-third of  Sweden's technical research and engineering education capacity at university level. KTH offers programmes leading to a  Master of  Architecture,  Master of  Science in  Engineering,  Bachelor of  Science in  Engineering,  Bachelor of  Science,  Master of  Science, licentiate or doctoral degree.  The university also offers a technical preparatory programme for non-scientists and further education.

There are a total of just over 14,000 full-year equivalent undergraduate students, more than 1,700 active postgraduate students and 4,600 full-time-equivalent employees. KTH is one of the leading technical universities in  Europe  and highly respected worldwide, especially in the domains of technology and natural sciences.

The main campus buildings at  Valhallavägen in Östermalm, by architect  Erik  Lallerstedt, were completed in 1917.  The buildings and surroundings were decorated by prominent early 20th-century  Swedish artists such as  Carl  Milles,  Axel Törneman,  Georg  Pauli,  Tore  Strindberg and  Ivar  Johnsson.  The older buildings on the campus were renovated heavily in 1994.  While the original campus was large for its time, KTH very soon outgrew it, and the campus was expanded with new buildings.  Today, KTH institutions and faculties are distributed across several campuses in  Stockholm  County, located in  Flemingsberg,  Haninge,  Kista and Södertälje, beyond the ones in Östermalm.

The  Kista  Campus, in  Kista,  Stockholm, houses the ICT department of the university.  With companies such as  Ericsson,  Volvo, IBM,  Tele2,  Tieto Enator,  Microsoft,  Intel and  Oracle as neighbors, the cooperation between industry and KTH is widely known.  Stockholm  University’s computer science programmes are also located in  Kista.

School of  Technology and  Health has a part of its activities in  Flemingsberg.  At KTH  Flemingsberg the school offers courses in  Medical  Engineering and conducts research within the subject.

KTH's activities in  Flemingsberg started in 2002.  Since 2003, the school offers a  Bachelor of  Education in  Medical  Engineering, in collaboration with the  Karolinska  Institutet.  In autumn 2008, a master of science in  Medical  Engineering started. located here are undergraduate studies, most research departments, and the research center:  Center for  Technology in  Medicine and  Health (CTMH), which collaborates with  Karolinska  Institutet and  Stockholm  County  Council (SLL) to contribute to the development and growth of research in engineering, medicine and health.

Flemingsberg is an area of high academic "density" and one of northern  Europe's most important areas within biotechnology – both terms of research and industrial activities.  Here are also Södertörn  University and the  Karolinska  Institutet with over 10 000 students and  Novum  Research  Center, where 1000 people are involved in research.

Flemingsberg is an area of strong growth.  To meet the need for student housing more apartments are planned.

In  Haninge, students from two schools at KTH receive education – the  School of  Architecture and the  Built  Environment, ABE, and the  School of  Technology and  Health, STH.  Here, students study at undergraduate and master level in fields such as building engineering (ABE), computer engineering, electrical engineering and foundation training.  The  School of  Technology and  Health also has a research centre i  Haninge –  Centre for  Health and  Building.

Just south of metropolitan  Stockholm you will discover a modern campus with reputation for its nice campus area, safe atmosphere and the feeling of togetherness among staff and students.

KTH  Haninge holds a large number of courses.  For example, the international master programme  Architectural  Lighting  Design is located here, with students from over 20 different countries.

KTH  Haninge has a meeting point where the diverse worlds of culture, scientific research and business come together to experience and examine the significance of light and lighting in our daily lives.  This is called the  Lighting  Laboratory.

The campus itself is located near the commuter train, which takes you to  Stockholm in just 20 minutes.  It is also close to a beautiful archipelago and enjoy the great outdoors in  Tyresta  National  Park.

KTH Södertälje is Södertälje’s university college campus. KTH Södertälje is a moderately large area with close and natural contacts between teachers and students.

KTH Södertälje’s education is being constantly developed via a close co-operation with the town’s business community and in particular major Södertälje companies such as  Scania and  Astra Zeneca.  Among other topics, university engineers in electronics and mechanical engineering are educated here.  Also, KTH offer various  Master's programmes in logistics, project management, and product development.

Since autumn 2007, the design studio  Go  Deep KTH at KTH Södertälje has been able to offer product development work via surveys, concept, visualisation and development through design.  The idea with  Go  Deep KTH is to create realistic cooperation projects with companies, public administrations and institutions together with researchers in technology, medicine and health.

At KTH Södertälje, each year  Tegelnatten is arranged, a competition where students in teams solve a 24-hour project assignment.  The project assignment for design night 2008 was to provide proposals and ideas as to how future games and competitions will be designed to attract and entice the future generations.

Södertälje offers KTH's students who will be studying at KTH Södertälje a guaranteed apartment in Södertälje.  Students who live and study in Södertälje also receive a computer via cooperation with the municipality which they are able to use during the time they spend as a student.

KTH was founded in 1827 under the name  Technological  Institute ( Teknologiska institutet), following the establishment of polytechnical schools in many  European countries the early years of the 19th century, often based on the model of École  Polytechnique in  Paris in 1794.

KTH's earliest  Swedish predecessor was the  Laboratorium mechanicum, a collection of mechanical models for teaching created in 1697 by  Christopher  Polhem, who is considered to be the father of mechanics in  Sweden.  The models were used intermittently for teaching practical mechanics by different masters until the  School of  Mechanics ( Mekaniska skolan) was founded in 1798.  This is the year from which there has been continuous teaching of technology in  Sweden.  The activities of the  School of  Mechanics was taken over by KTH when it was founded.

The institute had one professor of chemistry and one of physics, and one class in mechanical engineering and one in chemical engineering.  During the first years, however, teaching was at a very elementary level, and more aimed at craftsmanship rather than engineering as such.  The institute was also plagued by conflicts between the faculty and the founder and head of the institute,  Gustaf  Magnus  Schwartz, who was responsible for the artisanal focus of the institute. A government committee was appointed in 1844 to solve the issues, which led to removing  Schwartz in 1845.  Instead,  Joachim Åkerman, the head of the  School of  Mining in  Falun and a former professor of chemistry at KTH, took over.  He led a full reorganisation of the institute in 1846–1848, after which he returned to his post in  Falun.  An entrance test and a minimum age of 16 for students was introduced, which led to creating proper engineering training at the institute.  In 1851, the course was extended from two years to three.

In the late 1850s, the institute entered a time of expansion.  In 1863, it received its own purpose-built buildings on  Drottninggatan.  In 1867, its regulations were again overhauled, to state explicitly that the institute should provide scientific training to its students.  In 1869, the  School of  Mining in  Falun was moved to  Stockholm and merged with the institute.  In 1871, the institute took over the civil engineering course formerly arranged by the  Higher  Artillery  College in  Marieberg.

In 1877, the name was changed into the current one, which changed KTH's status from  Institute (institut) to  College (högskola), and some courses were extended from three years to four.  Architecture was also added to the curriculum.

In 1915, the degree titles conferred by KTH received legal protection.  In the late 19th century, it had become common to use the title civilingenjör (literally "civil engineer") for most KTH-trained engineers, and not just those who studied building and construction-related subjects.  The only exception was the mining engineers, which called themselves bergsingenjör ("mountain engineer").  For a while, the title civilingenjör was equal to "KTH graduate" but in 1937,  Chalmers in  Gothenburg became the second  Swedish engineering college which were allowed to confirm these titles.

In 1917, the first buildings of KTH's new campus on  Valhallavägen were completed, and still constitute its main campus.

Although the engineering education of the late 19th and early 20th century were scientifically founded, up until the early 20th century, research as such was not seen as a central activity of an  Institute of  Technology.  Those engineering graduates which went on to academic research had to earn their doctorates, typically in physics or chemistry, at a regular university.  In 1927, KTH was finally granted the right to confer its own doctorates, under the designation  Teknologie doktor ( Doctor of  Technology), and the first five doctors were created in 1929.

In 1984 the civilingenjör course at all  Swedish universities was extended from four years to 4.5.  From 1989, the shorter training in technology arranged by the municipal polytechnical schools in  Sweden was gradually extended and moved into the university system, from 1989 as two-year courses and from 1995 alternatively as three-year courses.  For KTH, this meant that additional campuses around the  Stockholm area were added.

In present-day KTH continue to be  Sweden's largest, oldest, and most international technical university.  The university provides one-third of  Sweden's research and engineering education.  In 2012, there were a total of 14,000 undergraduate students, 1,700 postgraduate students, and 4,600 members of staff at the university.

After the  American deployment of nuclear weapons at the end of  World  War II, the  Swedish military leadership recognized the need for nuclear weapons to be thoroughly investigated and researched to provide  Sweden with the knowledge to defend itself from a nuclear attack.  With the mission to "make something with neutrons", the  Swedish team, with scientists like  Rolf  Maximilian  Sievert, set out to research the subject and eventually build a nuclear reactor for testing.

After a few years of basic research, they started building a 300 k W (later expanded to 1 MW) reactor, named  Reaktor 1 (R1), in a reactor hall 25 meters under the surface right underneath KTH.  Today this might seem ill-considered, since approximately 40,000 people lived within a 1 km radius.  It was risky, but was deemed tolerable since the reactor was an important research tool for scientists at the  Royal  Swedish  Academy of  Engineering  Sciences ( Ingenjörsvetenskapsakademien).

At 18:59 on 13  July 1954, the reactor reached critical mass and sustained  Sweden's first nuclear reaction. R1 was to be the main site for almost all  Swedish nuclear research until 1970 when the reactor was finally decommissioned, mostly due to the increased awareness of the risks associated with operating a reactor in a densely populated area of  Stockholm.  The reactor hall remains an amusement to many as once it was next door to what used to be  Sweden's first nuclear reactor.  Close to the reactor hall is the restaurant Q.

From 2005 KTH is organized into nine schools each consisting of a number of departments:

In 2007, by government initiative, the  Swedish  National  Agency for  Higher  Education employed an international expert committee to find and award the top five highest quality education areas among all universities and colleges in  Sweden.  The  Royal  Institute of  Technology received one such " Centre of  Excellent  Quality in  Higher  Education" (in  Vehicle  Engineering).  It is the only higher education institution in the  Stockholm/ Uppsala region to receive an award.  In 2009, KTH was the only institution among all  Sweden's universities to be awarded  Centre of  Excellent  Quality in  Higher  Education (in computer science).  In 2014/2015 the university was ranked 110th in the world by QS  World  University  Rankings, and it was ranked 33rd in the world for engineering and technology (making it the highest ranked institution in  Scandinavia) and 74th in the natural sciences.  The 2013-14  Times  Higher  Education  World  University  Rankings ranked KTH 117th in the world. KTH is ranked as the 34th best university worldwide in the field of engineering and technology.  It is also 13th among the world’s technical universities, and 6th among  Europe’s.Ruhr- University  Bochum ( German:  Ruhr- Universität  Bochum, RUB), located on the southern hills of central  Ruhr area  Bochum, was founded in 1962 as the first new public university in  Germany since  World  War II.  Instruction began in 1965.

The  Ruhr- University  Bochum is one of the largest universities in  Germany and part of the  Deutsche  Forschungsgemeinschaft, the most important  German research funding organization.

The RUB was very successful in the  Excellence  Initiative of the  German  Federal and  State  Governments (2007), a competition between  Germany's most prestigious universities.  It was one of the few institutions left competing for the title of an "elite university", but did not succeed in the last round of the competition.  There are currently nine universities in  Germany that hold this title.

The  University of  Bochum was one of the first universities in  Germany to introduce international bachelor's and master's degrees, which replaced the traditional  German  Diplom and  Magister.  Except for a few special cases (for example in  Law) these degrees are offered by all faculties of the  Ruhr- University.  Currently, the university offers a total of 184 different study programs from all academic fields represented at the university.

Ruhr- University is financed and administered by the state of  North  Rhine- Westphalia.  Currently, 42,718 students are enrolled, and the university employs around 5,600 staff (411 of which are professors), making it one of the ten largest universities in  Germany (as of 2014).  Kurt  Biedenkopf, who later became prime minister of the state of  Saxony, was director of the university from 1967 to 1969.

The university is organized in twenty different faculties.  These are:

Unlike many older  German universities, the buildings of  Ruhr- University are all centralized on one campus, located south of  Bochum city.  The  Faculty of  Medicine includes several university clinics which are located at different centres in  Bochum and the  Ruhr area. A major facility for patient care is the  University  Hospital/ Knappschaftskrankenhaus in the  Langendreer part of  Bochum.  Internationally renowned experts in their respective fields are professors  Wolff  Schmiegel in oncology and  Burkhard  Dick in ophthalmology.  The centralized university campus architecture is comprised almost exclusively of the 1960s architecture style referred to as  Brutalism, consisting of 14 almost identical high-rise buildings.  One striking feature of these buildings is that although their roofs are all at the same apparent height (sky level), the absolute heights of the buildings vary in accordance with their placement on the undulating landscape in which the university is located: the campus is at the edge of a green belt on high ground adjacent to the  Ruhr valley.

The arrangement of the buildings and the (concrete) paths and bridges between them was originally meant to resemble a "harbour of knowledge", with the buildings simbolising vessels, by architect  Helmut  Hentrich[de].

The campus undergoes heavy modernisation and extension efforts, including the construction and refurbishment of several buildings.  Some of the original 1960s buildings are to be rebuilt (instead of refurbished) due to PCB contamination.  The overall campus concept envisions a modern facility and the placement of  Bochum as a "knowledge city".Sámi  University of  Applied  Sciences ( Northern  Sami: Sámi allaskuvla,  Norwegian:  Samisk høgskole) is a university college that is located in the village of  Kautokeino in  Kautokeino  Municipality in  Finnmark county,  Norway.  It was established in 1989 and has about 150 students and 52 faculty, technical and administrative staff.  It is one of 25  Norwegian state university colleges.  Since 2009 it has been located at the campus complex of  Diehtosiida.

Sámi  University of  Applied  Sciences has a national responsibility for Sámi higher education, including education within teaching and journalism.  The college attempts to develop its syllabi on the basis of Sámi needs, and attempts to develop Sámi as an academic language.  The college has students from all four countries covered by Sápmi.Södertörn  University ( Swedish: Södertörns högskola, abbreviated as SH) is a public university (högskola) located in  Flemingsberg, which is located in  Huddinge  Municipality, and the larger area called Södertörn, in  Stockholm  County,  Sweden.  In 2013, it had about 13 000 full-time students.  The campus area ( Universitetsområdet) in  Flemingsberg hosts the main campus of SH, several departments of the  Karolinska  Institutet, and the  School of  Technology and health of the  Royal  Institute of  Technology (KTH).  The  Karolinska  University  Hospital,  Huddinge (formerly  Huddinge  Hospital), is also located there.

Södertörn  University was established as a university college in 1996 following a parliamentary decision in 1995.  The expansion of higher education in the southern parts of  Stockholm had then been investigated for a long time.  The background was that the transition to higher education was low in the southern parts of  Stockholm, unemployment was high and segregation problems tended to be large.  Stockholm  University did not consider it appropriate to increase the number of students of  Stockholm  University and a university in Södertörn should be independent and not part of the  University of  Stockholm.  Karolinska  Institutet had already relocated their dental education to  Flemingsberg. KTH and  Stockholm  University had facilities in  Flemingsberg and  Novum  Research  Park was under construction.

At the university's inception in 1996, there were around 1,000 students. SH had facilities in Södertälje,  Flemingsberg and  Haninge.  Initially the pro-vice chancellor of  Stockholm  University was also vice-chancellor of Södertörn  University, but on 1  January 1997,  Per  Thullberg was appointed vice-chancellor and SH also attained the right to award their own degrees.  In 2002 the main building  Moas båge ( Moa's crescent) was inaugurated in  Flemingsberg.  The building also received the  Concrete  Products  Outdoor  Environment  Prize in 2003.  With the new facilities the teacher education program was moved from Södertälje to  Flemingsberg.  In spring 2006, the university's board operations decided to move from campus  Haninge to campus  Flemingsberg by autumn 2008 and phase out the Södertälje campus where teaching had already been discontinued.

Södertörn  University applied to the government to become a university in 2002.  The application has not yet been processed.  In 2004 Södertörn  University applied together with  Karolinska  Institutet and KTH for approval to create a university network at Södertörn  University based on the same model as the  University of  Oxford in the UK.  In  May 2006, a updated version of the university application was submitted to the government, including changes implemented since 2002. 1  July 2010, the  Swedish  Higher  Education  Authority granted Södertörn  University the right to award doctoral degrees in the areas of  Historical  Studies,  Critical and  Cultural  Theory,  Environmental  Studies and  Politics,  Economy and the  Organisation of  Society.

At the end of 2013 Södertörn  University was awarded the task of providing the basic training programme for the police.  It will run as contract education and will cover five semesters of full-time studies, including a six-month traineeship at a police authority.  The first 180 police cadets started their education at Södertörn  University in  January 2015.

In 2013 Södertörn  University had 12 578 students of which 6 984 were full-time students.

Södertörn  University carries out research in the humanities, social sciences, science, environment, technology and educational science.

The primary purpose of the research centres is to bring academic added value by focusing on scientifically interesting fields that lie at the intersections of traditional disciplines.  This way the university wishes to create a creative meeting place for staff and students.

The Södertörn  University  Library building was designed by  Christer  Malmström  Arkitektkontor AB, and has received one of  Sweden's most prestigious prizes for architecture, the  Kasper  Salin-prize.  The 11 000 square metre building contains the library's collection, examination rooms, study areas and has 700 study spaces.  The library was opened 2004.This  Norwegian university, college or other education institution article is a stub.  You can help  Wikipedia by expanding it.Saarland  University ( German:  Universität des  Saarlandes) is a modern research university located in  Saarbrücken, the capital of the  German state of  Saarland, and  Homburg.  It was founded in 1948 in  Homburg in co-operation with  France and is organized in eight faculties that cover all major fields of science.  The university is particularly well known for research and education in computer science, computational linguistics and materials science, consistently ranking among the top in the country in those fields.  In 2007, the university was recognized as an excellence center for computer science in  Germany.

Thanks to bilingual  German and  French staff, the  University has an international profile, which has been underlined by its proclamation as " European  University" in 1950 and by establishment of  Europa- Institut as its "crown and symbol" in 1951.

Nine academics have been honored with the highest  German research prize, the  Gottfried  Wilhelm  Leibniz  Prize, while working at  Saarland  University.

Saarland  University, the first to be established after  World  War II, was founded in  November 1948 with the support of the  French  Government and under the auspices of the  University of  Nancy.

At the time the  Saarland found itself in the special situation of being partly autonomous and linked to  France by economic and monetary union.  With its combination of the  German and  French educational traditions and the dual languages of instruction, the university had a  European perspective right from the start.  Prior to the foundation of the university, clinical training courses for medical students at the state hospital,  Saarland  University  Hospital, in  Homburg,  Saarland, had been introduced in  January 1946 and the " Centre  Universitaire d' Etudes  Supérieures de  Hombourg" established on 8  May 1947 under the patronage of the  University of  Nancy.  Students in certain disciplines can obtain degree certificates from both universities.

The first president of the independent university in 1948 was  Jean  Barriol.  In the same year the university introduced the first courses in law, philosophy and languages.

In the 1950s  Saarland  University joined the  Association of  West- German  Universities and accepted a new, more centralized organizational structure.  The  Europa- Institut is established as a  European politics and law think tank.

In 1990 the faculty of technology is established.  The university steadily gains leading research status in information technology.

Saarland  University is known for research in  Computer  Science, nano technology, medicine,  European relations, politics and law.  The university campus and the surrounding area is home to several specialized research institutes, affiliated with various high-profile independent research societies and private companies, focused on primary and applied research.

The university science park provides a startup incubator and a technology/research transfer environment for companies mostly focused on IT, nanotechnology and biotechnology.

With its numerous degree programmes and the variety of final qualifications offered ( Diplom,  Magister,  Ph.D., state examinations and, increasingly, bachelor and master qualifications),  Saarland  University provides the broad spectrum of disciplines typical of a classical universitas litterarum.  The more traditional subjects such as business administration and economics, law and medicine are just as much a part of  Saarland  University as the new degree programmes that have developed from modern interdisciplinary collaborations and which reflect the increasing demand for such qualifications in today's job market.  Examples of these new courses include ' Biology with  Special  Focus on  Human  Biology and  Molecular  Biology', ' Bioinformatics / Computational  Biology', ' Mechatronics  Engineering', ' Micro- and  Nanostructured  Materials', ' Computer and  Communications  Technology', ' Historically-oriented  Cultural  Studies' and ' French  Cultural  Science and  Intercultural  Communication'.

Integrated degree courses, which can lead to the award of a joint degree, are organized by  Saarland  University and foreign partner universities in the fields of business administration, physics, chemistry, materials science and in the interdisciplinary programme ' Cross-border  Franco- German  Studies'.  In the area of teacher training,  Saarland  University offers an integrated bilingual ( French- German) course for prospective teachers of geography and history. A further distinctive feature of  Saarland  University is the fact that the university is able to award  French degrees in subjects such as  Droit,  Allemand and  Lettres modernes.  Additional qualifications may also be obtained in numerous postgraduate courses.

The  Europa- Institut is among the very few socio-economic research centers to focus primarily on  European integration.  Its  European law and MBA in  European  Management programmes uniquely focus on opportunities emerging from an expanding and more integrated  Europe.

The university is also responsible for conducting  Computer  Science related courses for students enrolled in the graduate programmes of the MPI for  Computer  Science and MPI for  Software  Systems.  Saarland  University is one of the few universities in  Germany where the entire master's programme in  Computer  Science is taught in  English.

The  University is headed by a  University  Board which includes a  President and three vice presidents, responsible for planning and strategy, research and technology transfer, education and administration and finance.  There are two commities on research policy and education.

Further, the university has senate and a number of councils dealing with problems ranging from distance learning to women's issues.

The main campus in  Saarbrücken is just outside the city, set between picturesque hills.  Cycling from the university to the city or short wander in the forest close to campus is a favorite of students and faculty.Sogn og  Fjordane  University  College ( Norwegian: Høgskulen i  Sogn og  Fjordane,  Hi SF) is a høgskole, a  Norwegian state institution of higher education, in the county of  Sogn og  Fjordane.  The university college's campuses are located in  Sogndal and Førde, and has approximately 3,800 students and 300 employees.  The surrounding areas span over a variety of environments ranging from marine to high alpine, with glaciers and several nature parks on the  World  Heritage list.

Sogn og  Fjordane  University  College is divided into four faculties:  Faculty of  Engineering and  Science,  Faculty of  Health  Studies,  Faculty of  Social  Sciences and  Faculty of  Teacher  Education and  Sports.Stockholm  University ( Swedish:  Stockholms universitet) is a public university in  Stockholm,  Sweden, founded as a college in 1878, with university status since 1960.  Stockholm  University has two scientific fields: the natural sciences and the humanities/social sciences.  With over 70,000 students at four different faculties: law, humanities, the mathematical, and natural sciences, it is one of the largest universities in  Scandinavia.  The institution is regarded as one of the top 100 universities in the world by the  Academic  Ranking of  World  Universities (ARWU), while the QS  World  University  Rankings and the  Times  Higher  Education  World  University  Rankings (THE) place the SU among the top 200 universities in the world.

Stockholm  University was granted university status in 1960, making it the fourth oldest  Swedish university.  As with other public universities in  Sweden,  Stockholm  University's mission includes teaching and research anchored in society at large.

The initiative for the formation of  Stockholm  University was taken by the  Stockholm  City  Council.  The process was completed after a decision in  December 1865 regarding the establishment of a fund and a committee to "establish a higher education institution in the capital".  The nine members of the  Committee were respected and prominent citizens whose work have helped the evolution of science and society.

The next important step was taken in  October 1869, when the  Stockholm  University  College  Association was established.  Several members of the committee became members of the association - including  Professor  Pehr  Henrik  Malmsten.  The association's mission was to establish a university in  Stockholm and would "not be dissolved until college came into being and its future could be secured."  The memorandum of the  Stockholm  University  College were adopted in  May 1877, and in the autumn semester of the following year, actual operations began.

In 1878, the university college  Stockholms högskola started its operations with a series of lectures on natural sciences, open to curious citizens (a tradition still upheld by yearly publicly open lectures).  Notable in the university's early history is the appointment of  Sofia  Kovalevskaya to hold a chair in mathematics department in 1889, making her the third female professor in  Europe.  In 1904 the college became an official degree granting institution.

In 1960, the college was granted university status, becoming  Sweden's fourth state university.  The university premises were situated in central  Stockholm at  Observatorielunden but increased enrollment resulted in a lack of space, which required the university campus to be shifted to a bigger facility.  Since 1970 most of the university operations are pursued at the main campus at  Frescati north of the city center.

Stockholm  University is a state agency and is governed by the decisions coming from the government and parliament.  The  University has the right, within the limits the government provides, to decide on many issues such as their internal organization, educational, admission of students and other administrative functions of the university.

Education and research at  Stockholm  University is carried out within the natural sciences and the humanities/social sciences.  Within these fields, there are four faculties with 70 departments, institutes and centers within the humanities, law, natural sciences and social sciences.  Research and training also takes place at a number of centers and institutes with a separate governing board, but that organisationally belong to a department.

At  Stockholm  University, there are 200  Bachelor's programmes and 1,900 courses to choose from.

The university researchers engage in governmental investigations, participates in the media, leaving comments on proposed legislation and is included in several  Nobel committees and international expert bodies.

Stockholm  University  Marine  Research center (SMF) provides " Askö  Laboratory".  Research on ecosystems, ecology and the impact of human interference is carried out here.  The field station was built in 1961 by  Professor  Lars  Silén,  Prefect of the  Department of  Zoology, and is now established as a renowned marine research center.

Tarfala research station belongs to the  Department of  Physical  Geography at  Stockholm  University.  The station is located 1135 meters above sea in  Tarfaladalen, on the east side of  Kebnekaise in arctic / alpine surroundings.  Here, glaciological, hydrological, meteorological and climatological research is conducted.  The station has the capacity to accommodate groups up to 25 people and the staff consists of 2-5 people.

Tovetorp  Zoological  Research  Station belongs to the  Department of  Zoology at  Stockholm  University, and is located about 95 km southwest of  Stockholm.  It conducts research and training activities in ecology and ethology.  Every year  Tovetorp is visited of up to 600 students who live and study between 2–10 days on the station.  On the research side, over 20 people work today with different research projects.  The number of employees are currently 6 people.

Prior to 2008,  Stockholm  University had only one student union called  Stockholm  University  Student  Union ( Stockholm universitets studentkår, SUS).  However, as of 2008 the computer and system science students and the teacher students have their own, independent, student unions called DISK and " The  Teacher's  College's  Student  Union" (Lärarhögskolans studentkår).  The law students also have their own student union, as do journalism students ( Studentkåren vid JMK).

The future of the  Teacher's  College's  Student  Union is however not entirely safe, as  Stockholm  University's  Student  Union has declared it will begin talks with the  Teacher's  College's  Student  Union on transferring its members to it, as it already has a teacher's division.  In contrast to common belief, DISK is not an abbreviation.

In the  Academic  Ranking of  World  Universities 2014, an annual publication of university rankings by  Shanghai  Ranking  Consultancy/ Academic  Ranking of  World  Universities,  Stockholm  University was placed as the 78th overall best university worldwide (2013: 82).

The  Times  Higher  Education (THE)  World  University  Rankings 2015-2016 listed  Stockholm  University at position 136 on the list of the world’s top universities.  Times  Higher  Education  World  University  Rankings are annual university rankings published by  British  Times  Higher  Education (THE) magazine.

In the QS  World  University  Rankings,  Stockholm  University was ranked 182 overall in the world in 2014.  Whereas, in the 2013  Stockholm  University was ranked 170th overall in the world.  Its subject rankings were: 81st in  Arts &  Humanities, 168th in  Life  Sciences &  Biomedicine, 69th in  Natural  Sciences, and 65th in  Social  Sciences.

In the CWTS  Leiden  Ranking 2014,  Stockholm  University was placed at 140 on the list of universities in the world.

The main part of  Stockholm  University is in the area  Frescati, ranging from  Bergius  Botanical  Garden in the north to  Sveaplan in the south.  It is located in the world's first national urban park and the area is characterized by nature, architecture and modern art.  Within  Frescati, the areas  Albano ( Stockholm),  Bergius  Botanical  Garden,  Frescati  Backe,  Frescati  Hage,  Kräftriket,  Lilla  Frescati and  Sveaplan are located.  Identification of many of these areas have a history dating back to the late 1700s.  After  Gustav III's trip to  Italy in 1783-84, several places at  Brunnsviken were named after  Italian models.  Stockholm  University has also, for example the  Department of computer and systems sciences, located in  Kista.

There are many ways to get to  Stockholm  University, the main campus  Frescati is located near the underground railway station  Universitetet metro station, on the red line of the  Stockholm  Metro.  The commuter train line  Roslagsbanan also stop close to the main campus, at  Universitetet railway station. SL buses 40, 70, 540, 608 and 670 can also be used to get to the campus.

The  Computer  Science campus,  Kista, also is close to an underground station called  Kista.  It is also located close to the pendeltåg station  Helenelund, only 1-2 stops (depending on bus line) from the bus station  Torsnäsgatan located next to the campus area.Stockholm  University of the  Arts ( Stockholms  Konstnärliga Högskola) is a public university college created 1  January 2014 by joining the  School of  Dance and  Circus, the  University  College of  Opera, and the  Stockholm  Academy of  Dramatic  Arts.  This is the result of the ministerial committee directive issued in 2012.  The three institutions remain autonomous with regards to undergraduate studies, but the amalgamation intends to achieve critical mass and high quality environments for research and doctoral studies.

Vice-chancellor is  Paula  Crabtree, and chairman of the board is Kåre  Bremer, former vice-chancellor of  Stockholm university.The  Swedish  Defence  University ( Swedish: Försvarshögskolan) is situated on  Drottning  Kristinas väg 37 in Östermalm,  Stockholm  City  Centre, next to the campus of the  Royal  Institute of  Technology.

Today's  Swedish  Defence  University marks the latest development in a long line of military education tradition.  The  Higher  Artillery  College in  Marieberg was established in  Stockholm in the 19th century.  The  Swedish  Defence  University's has existed in its present form since 1997.  The  University was established as a national university college on  January 1, 2008.  Since that time, the  College has the right to issue academic degrees.  Formerly known in english as the  Swedish  National  Defence  College, the  University adopted its present name as of 1  February 2015.

The  University trains and educates domestic and international military and civilian personnel.  The  University offers training for career and reserve officers of the  Swedish  Armed  Forces.  Graduates contribute, both nationally and internationally, to the management of crisis situations and security issues.  Successful candidates are awarded a bachelor's degree in  Military  Science.  The course is conducted over 6 semesters.  On successful completion of all modules 180 credits are awarded.

The officers' programme is a three-year undergraduate degree course.  Teachers and professors from the  Swedish  Defence  University are often seen in the media as expert commentators on matters of public interest.  The officer's aim is to gain proficiency as platoon-level leaders.

The  University is a founding member of the  International  Society of  Military  Sciences (ISMS) and hosted the ISMS annual conference in 2010.  The  University contributes towards national and international security through research and development.  Research is carried out  Military  Arts and  Sciences and subsequently disseminated both nationally and internationally.  The  University is a member of the  International  Association for  Military  Pedagogy, whose members include military and civilian professionals from military institutions of advanced learning.The  Swedish  University of  Agricultural  Sciences ( Swedish:  Sveriges  Lantbruksuniversitet) (SLU) is a university in  Sweden.  Although its head office is located in  Ultuna,  Uppsala, the university has several campuses in different parts of  Sweden, the other main facilities being  Alnarp in  Lomma  Municipality,  Skara, and  Umeå.  Unlike other state owned universities in  Sweden, it is funded through the budget for the  Ministry for  Rural  Affairs.

The university has four faculties:  Faculty of  Landscape planning,  Horticulture and  Agricultural  Sciences,  Faculty of  Natural  Resources and  Agriculture  Sciences,  Faculty of  Veterinary  Medicine and  Animal  Science and  Faculty of  Forest  Sciences. SLU had in 2012 3080 full-time staff, 3935 full-time students, 714 research students and 241 professors.

In the 2007  Academic  Ranking of  World  Universities, SLU was ranked in 5-9 place in  Sweden, 81-123 in  Europe and 203-304 in the world.

The university was formed in 1977 by combining three existing separate colleges for veterinary medicine, forestry and agriculture, as well as some smaller units into one organisation.  At the same time, the  Veterinary college and  Forestry college were moved from  Stockholm to  Ultuna, which already was the main campus of the  Agricultural college.  The locations used by the two relocated colleges are today used by the  Stockholm  University.

These colleges had a long history as separate institutions.  The  Veterinary  Institution in  Skara was founded in 1775 and was headed by  Peter  Hernqvist, a student of both  Carl von  Linné and of  Claude  Bourgelat, who founded the first veterinary college in  Lyon in 1762.  From 1821 a new veterinary institution in  Stockholm took over the training of veterinarians from  Skara.  The  Institute of  Forestry was founded in  Stockholm in 1828 to provide higher education to those who had gone through practical forestry schools, and was made into a college 1915.  An agricultural institute was founded in  Ultuna in 1848 and in  Alnarp in 1862, under the supervision of the  Royal  Swedish  Academy of  Agriculture, founded in 1813.  These institutes, and the experimental activities conducted by the  Academy from 1814, were the basis of the  Agricultural college, which was created in 1932.

The  Journal of  Forest  Economics (ISSN 1104-6899) is published by  Elsevier in affiliation with the  Department of  Forest  Economics.  It was founded by Sören  Wibe.The  Technical  University of  Denmark ( Danish:  Danmarks  Tekniske  Universitet), often simply referred to as DTU, is a university in  Kongens  Lyngby, just north of  Copenhagen,  Denmark.  It was founded in 1829 at the initiative of  Hans  Christian Ørsted as  Denmark's first polytechnic, and is today ranked among  Europe's leading engineering institutions.

DTU, along with École  Polytechnique Fédérale de  Lausanne,  Eindhoven  University of  Technology and  Technical  University of  Munich, is a member of  Euro Tech  Universities  Alliance.

DTU was founded in 1829 as the ' College of  Advanced  Technology' ( Danish:  Den  Polytekniske Læreanstalt) with the physicist  Hans  Christian Ørsted, then a professor at the  University of  Copenhagen, as one of the driving forces.  The inspiration was the École  Polytechnique in  Paris,  France which Ørsted had visited as a young scientist.  The new institution was inaugurated on 5  November 1829 with Ørsted as its principal, a position he held until his death in 1851.

The new college's first home was two buildings in  Studiestræde and  St-  Pederstræde in central  Copenhagen.  Although expanded several times, they remained inadequate and in 1890 a new building complex was inaugurated in Sølvgade in 1890.  The new buildings were designed by the architect  Johan  Daniel  Herholdt.

In 1903 the  College of  Advanced  Technology commenced the education of electrical engineers in addition to the construction engineers, production engineers and mechanical engineers already educated at the college.

In the 1920s space had once again become insufficient and in 1929 the foundation stone was laid for a new school at Østervold.  Completion of the building was delayed by  World  War II and it was not completed until 1954.

From 1933 the institution was officially known as  Danmarks tekniske Højskole ( Dt H), which was usually translated as the ' Technical  University of  Denmark'.  On 1  April 1994, in connection with the joining of  Danmarks  Ingeniørakademi (DIA) and DTH, the  Danish name was changed to  Danmarks  Tekniske  Universitet, in order to include the word ' University', thus giving rise to the initials DTU by which the university is commonly known today.  The formal name,  Den  Polytekniske Læreanstalt,  Danmarks  Tekniske  Universitet, still includes the original name.

In 1960 a decision was made to move the  College of  Advanced  Technology to new and larger facilities in  Lyngby north of  Copenhagen.  They were inaugurated on 17  May 1974.

On 23 and 24  November 1967 the  University  Computing  Center hosted the NATO  Science  Committee's  Study  Group first meeting discussing the newly coined term ' Software  Engineering'.

On 1  January 2007 the university was merged with the following  Danish research centers:  Forskningscenter  Risø,  Danmarks Fødevareforskning,  Danmarks  Fiskeriundersøgelser (from 1  January 2008:  National  Institute for  Aquatic  Resources; DTU  Aqua),  Danmarks  Rumcenter, and  Danmarks  Transport- Forskning.

The university is governed by a board consisting of 10 members: 6 members recruited outside the university form the majority of the board, 1 member is appointed by the scientific staff, 1 member is appointed by the administrative staff, and 2 members are appointed by the university students.

The  President of DTU is appointed by the university board.  The president in turn appoints deans, and deans appoint heads of departments.

Since DTU has no faculty senate, and since the faculty is not involved in the appointment of president, deans, or department heads, the university has no faculty governance.

The university is located on a plain known as  Lundtoftesletten in the northeastern end of the city of  Lyngby.  The area was previously home to the airfield  Lundtofte  Flyveplads.

The campus is roughly divided in half by the road  Anker  Engelunds  Vej going in the east-west direction, and, perpendicular to that, by two lengthy, collinear roads located on either side of a parking lot.  The campus is thus divided into four parts, referred to as quadrants, numbered 1 through 4 in correspondence with the conventional numbering of quadrants in the  Cartesian coordinate system with north upwards.

DTU was the subject of controversy in 2009 because the former institute director of the  Department of  Chemistry was a high-ranking member of  Scientology.  In relation to this, the university was accused of violating the principles of free speech by threatening to fire employees who voice their criticism of the institute director.  On 7  April 2010, his successor was announced, at a department meeting, as  Erling  Stenby, who officially took over as  Director on 1  May 2010.

Shortly thereafter, the university management threatened  Rolf W.  Berg with dismissal for publicly criticizing the university.

In  November 2007 the  Times  Higher  Education  Supplement put the university as number 130 in their ranking of the universities of the world and number 122 in 2010.TU  Dortmund  University ( German:  Technische  Universität  Dortmund) is a university in  Dortmund,  North  Rhine- Westphalia,  Germany with over 30,000 students, and over 3,000 staff.  It is situated in the  Ruhr area, the fourth largest urban area in  Europe.

  The university is highly ranked in terms of its research performance in the areas of physics, electrical engineering, chemistry and economics.

The  University of  Dortmund was founded in 1968, during the decline of the coal and steel industry in the  Ruhr region.  Its establishment was seen as an important move in the economic change ( Strukturwandel) from heavy industry to technology.  The university's main areas of research are the natural sciences, engineering, pedagogy/teacher training in a wide spectrum of subjects, special education, and journalism.  The  University of  Dortmund was originally designed to be a technical university, but in 1980, it merged with the adjacent Pädagogische  Hochschule  Ruhr that housed mostly humanities.

In 2006,  The  University of  Dortmund hosted the 11th  Federation of  International  Robot-soccer  Association (FIRA)  Robo World  Cup.  The university's robot soccer team, the  Dortmund  Droids, became vice world champion in the  Robo World  Cup 2002 and finished third in 2003.

Following the  Zeitgeist of the late 1960s in  Germany, the university was built auf der grünen  Wiese (on the meadows) about 2 miles (3.2 km) outside of downtown  Dortmund.  It consists of two campuses,  North and  South, which since 1984 have been linked by an automated hanging monorail system, the H- Bahn, that crosses the quaint nature reserve between the campuses at a height of about 50 feet (15 m).  One of the most prominent buildings in the university is the  Mathetower ( Mathematics  Tower), which houses the faculty of  Mathematics.

The university has a student radio station called eldoradio* which can be listened to also via livestream (link: see below).

The first point of registration for .de-domains was at the  Dortmund  University  Department of  Computer  Science.

The first .de-domain (currently the most popular  German cc TLD in terms of number of registrations) was www.uni-dortmund.de.

Former president of  Germany,  Johannes  Rau was awarded an honorary degree from the university in 2004.

  Carl  Djerassi was awarded an honorary degree for his science-in-fiction in 2009.The  Technische  Universität  Ilmenau (TU  Ilmenau) is a  German public research university located in  Ilmenau,  Thuringia,  Germany.  It was founded in 1894, it has a total of 5 academic departments (faculties) and about 7,200 students.

Research and education at the  Technische  Universität  Ilmenau is focused on engineering with strong links to economics and natural sciences.  It is the only university in the federal state of  Thüringen with the title “ Technische  Universität”.  Today's university began its life in 1894 as the " Thüringisches  Technikum”, a private training college.  This took on the status of  Hochschule für  Elektrotechnik ( Hf E) before becoming a  Technische  Hochschule (TH) and in 1992 being accorded the title of  Technische  Universität (TU).

TU  Ilmenau offers degrees in technology, science, economics and media.  These all also form part of the interdisciplinary media subjects which are a more recent development and combine technology, economics, law and social studies.

The 7200 or so students (at the last count) include about 1650 who come from outside  Germany.  The courses they take lead to  Bachelor’s and/or master's degrees in which the subjects tend to be drawn from a number of disciplines within the overall groups of  Engineering,  Mathematics with  Science, and  Economics with  Social  Studies.

Among the distinguishing features of the TU  Ilmenau are personal care for students from professors, tutors and student mentors; a campus with modern buildings only short distances apart; a variety of social activities and social support; many student associations as well as diverse cultural and sports activities.

The  International  School is drawing attention from lot of students and researchers.  Master's in  Communications and  Signal processing is the well sought course in  English.  Each semester, approximately 35 students join to the program from all over the world, with a high percentage of students from  Asia.  This  Master's program is very well reputed for its scientific research standards.

The  Department of  Electrical  Engineering and  Information  Technology has its roots in the  Faculties of  Heavy  Current  Technology and  Light  Current  Technology of the erstwhile engineering college, the " Hochschule für  Elektrotechnik" ( Hf E).  It comprises four institutes as well as the  Inter- Faculty  Institute for  Materials  Technology and is in charge of the following graduate courses of study:  Electrical  Engineering and  Information  Technology and  Media  Technology, as well as the further education course of  Telecommunications  Manager.  The inventor of the MP3 music encoding format  Karlheinz  Brandenburg is one of the professors at this  Faculty.

Master of  Science in  Communication and  Signal  Processing (the most challenging course in  Germany) also belongs to this faculty and is in  English medium.

The  Department of  Computer  Science and  Automation has its roots in the  Institutes of  Control  Engineering and  Electromedical and  Radiological of the  Hf E as well as in the scientific fields of  Engineering  Informatics and  Computer  Engineering of the former TH  Ilmenau.  This faculty has five institutes including 20 departments and the junior professorship " Automation  Technology" and is in charge of the course of study of " Biomedical  Engineering", " Computer  Science", " Computer  Engineering" and " Technical  Cybernetics and  Systems  Theory".

The  Department of  Mechanical  Engineering was founded as  Faculty of  Precision  Mechanics and  Optics at the  Hf E.  It comprises 19 departments as well as the junior professorship " Design of mechatronics drives" and is in charge of the graduate courses of study of  Mechanical  Engineering,  Mechatronics,  Automotive  Engineering,  Optronics,  Teacher  Training for  Vocational  School and  Materials  Science taught at the  Inter- Faculty  Institute for  Materials  Technology.  Complementary further-education courses offered include  Applications of  Light and  Innovative  Engineering  Design for  Industrial  Machinery and  Equipment (shared course with the  Friedrich- Schiller- Universität  Jena).

The  Department of  Mathematics and  Natural  Science has emerged from the  Faculty of  Mathematics,  Natural  Science and  Technical  Basic  Sciences of the  Hf E.  At present, it comprises the  Institutes of  Mathematics,  Physics,  Chemistry and  Biotechnique as well as  Media and  Communications.  It is in charge of the graduate courses of study of  Mathematics,  Technical  Physics and  Applied  Media  Science.  Furthermore, it is responsible for the basic training of the students required for other courses of study in mathematics, physics and chemistry.

The  Department of  Economic  Sciences and  Media opened in 1990/91 is the youngest of all faculties at the university.  The course of study of  Business  Informatics has been offered since 1988, and in 1990, the course of study of  Industrial  Engineering and  Management was added.  This faculty has four institutes including 15 departments and is in charge of the graduate courses of study of  Commercial  Information  Technology,  Industrial  Engineering and  Management and  Media  Economics.  In the field of further education, it is responsible for the postgraduate course of  Economic and  Technical  Information.

Research in  Ilmenau is carried out at all stages: theory, application of the theory, prototype testing and transfer to industrial application.  Because the TU relies upon interdisciplinary work across faculty boundaries, and brings together many skills thereby, the following highly competitive research activities have been established:

The university has a major centre contributing greatly to its research performance, the ZMN,  Centre for  Micro- and  Nanotechnology.  So that results achieved in applied research can be transferred rapidly to industrial use, and so that spin-off companies are founded by the university and new partners found for collaborative projects, the university has set up public-private partnerships on new models, with the university taking a seat on the management boards of industrial companies.  This concept is underlied by the entities known as “TU  Ilmenau  Service  Gmb H” and the “ Technologiegesellschaft  Thüringen mb H &  Co. KG”.

The university is actively participating in the restructuring and development of the region (“ Technologieregion  Ilmenau- Arnstadt”).  It also contributes to regional planning with its thinking on the encouragement of a high-tech periphery to the campus itself.  There is a large number of innovative technological companies which have taken root in the immediate area of the university.  With the “ Energietechnisches  Zentrum  Thüringen” ( Energy  Engineering  Centre for  Thuringia), the TU  Ilmenau is also steering its research strategy into energy engineering.  Here the intention is to unite the academic strength of the  University in energy engineering and management with the interest of other  Thuringian enterprises and institutes.

The  Technische  Universität  Ilmenau is an active partner in the scientific-technological just as economic promotion of the  Ilmenau  Technological  Development  Area.  In addition to this, it seeks to gain wide reputation on both a national and international scale.  Considering educational export as one its main tasks, the university supports the international exchange of its students and collaborators on the basis of programmes set up for this purpose.

  The  Technische  Universität  Ilmenau strives to increase the number of foreign students and, therefore, promotes the cultural education as an important aspect of an ever increasing international competence requested.

  Every two years the  Initiative  Solidarische  Welt  Ilmenau e.V. hosts ISWI ( International  Student  Week  Ilmenau) at the TU  Ilmenau.  It is an  International  Conference for students from all around the world.  It aims to foster tolerance, understanding among nations and an international attitude.  The TU  Ilmenau runs we4you, which is an organization to help and welcome the international students in  Ilmenau.

The  University is the most important employer in  Ilmenau.  It is one of the 4 universities in  Thuringia, the others being the  University of  Erfurt, the  Bauhaus  University of  Weimar, and the  Friedrich  Schiller  University of  Jena.  It is now the most important centre of science in  Thuringia, and intensive cooperations with the TU  Ilmenau occur.

Conference of  European  Schools for  Advanced  Engineering  Education and  ResearchTelemark  University  College (TUC,  Norwegian: Høgskolen i  Telemark,  Hi T) was the fourth largest university college in  Norway.  The  University  College had about 7000 students, split between four different locations in Bø,  Notodden,  Porsgrunn,  Rauland and  Drammen.

The university college was organised into four faculties.  The  Faculty of  Arts and  Sciences,  The  Faculty of  Arts,  Folk  Culture and  Teacher  Education,  The  Faculty of  Health and  Social  Studies and  The  Faculty of  Technology.

More than 140 studies were offered within the fields of:  Engineering,  Nursing,  Teaching,  Culture,  Folk  Culture,  Folk  Music,  Environmental and health studies,  Sports and physical education,  Outdoor life,  Economics,  Computer  Science and  Languages.

Studies were offered at bachelor's and master's degree-level, in addition to a professional writer's education is also offered.  They furthermore offered two  Ph D programmes.  There were also several 1-year programmes available.  Most studies are taught in  Norwegian, but some programmes were taught in  English, mainly master's degrees.  Telemark  University  College uses the  European  Credit  Transfer and  Accumulation  System

The last rector was  Kristian  Bogen.  From 2016 it merged with  Buskerud and  Vestfold  University  College to form the  University  College of  Southeast  Norway.The  Ukrainian  Free  University ( Ukrainian: Український Вільний Університет,  German:  Ukrainische  Freie  Universität,  Latin:  Universitas  Libera  Ukrainensis) is a private graduate university located in  Munich,  Germany.

The  Ukrainian  Free  University (UFU) was established in  Vienna,  January 17, 1921.  The idea to organize a  Ukrainian university-in-exile came from  Ukrainian academics, some of whom had held chairs at universities in the  Russian and  Austro- Hungarian  Empires. UFU was transferred in the fall of 1921 to  Prague,  Czechoslovakia.  The host government granted UFU full academic accreditation and provided the  University with financial support. UFU received wide recognition during its  Prague period for significant and productive teaching, research and publications.

After the  Second  World  War, UFU established its seat in  Munich,  Germany.  The  September 16, 1950  Free  State of  Bavaria  Ministerial decree guaranteed degree granting privileges.  In the ensuing period various  Bavarian university laws and ministerial decrees reaffirmed this academic privilege.  Federal  German and  Bavarian governmental financial support contributed towards worthwhile research, publishing and teaching activities.  The  University became a recognized  Western  European scholarly centre, specializing in the study of  Ukraine within the USSR and of  Ukrainians in the diaspora.  Emphasis was placed on the study of  Ukrainian history, literature, culture, law and politics.  German and  Bavarian financial aid ceased in the years following  Ukrainian independence, as it was assumed that patronage of the  University would be assured by  Ukraine. The  Ukrainian  Ministry of  Education recognized UFU doctoral decrees in  November 1992.  To date,  Ukrainian governmental funding have not materialized.  Thus, since 2009, the  Ukrainian  Free  University relies entirely on its own resources.

Over the years, the  University has evolved from a "university-in-exile" to a full-fledged, though highly specialized,  European  Union graduate school.  Nevertheless, UFU has retained much of its remarkableness and singularity.  In its research and publishing activities the  University focuses primarily on  Ukraine and things  Ukrainian.

The  University has three academic structures.  The  Faculty of  Ukrainian  Studies concentrates on interdisciplinary  Ukrainian studies .  Culture, literature and history constitute the core of  Ukrainian studies.  The  Faculty of  Philosophy houses the remaining humanitarian disciplines, such as philosophy, fine arts, music, teacher training and religion.  The  Faculty of  Government and  Political  Economy unites such social science disciplines as political science, economics and business, sociology, psychology and legal studies.

UFU is the only private university in the world which, while located outside of  Ukraine, offers graduate programs of study in the social sciences and the humanities, primarily in  Ukrainian language.  In fact, in order to be able to matriculate at UFU one must demonstrate fluency in  Ukrainian.  Masters programs require two to three semesters of course work, an MA thesis and an oral thesis defense.  Doctoral programs stipulate three semesters of course work, a doctoral dissertation, philosophy commprehensives and an oral thesis defense. Dissertations are normally written in  Ukrainian.  In exceptional cases permission may be granted to write in another language.  Winter  Semester teaching period runs from early  November to mid  December and from the end of  January until early  March.  Summer  Semester teaching period is from early  May until the end of  July.

Most UFU faculty members also hold simultaneously permanent academic positions at  European  Union,  American,  Canadian and  Ukrainian institutions of higher learning.Umeå  University ( Swedish:  Umeå universitet) is a university in  Umeå in the mid-northern region of  Sweden.  The university was founded in 1965 and is the fifth oldest within  Sweden's present borders.

As of 2015,  Umeå  University has nearly 31,000 registered students (approximately 16,000 full-time students), including those at the postgraduate and doctoral level.  It has more than 4,000 employees, half of which are teachers/researchers, including 368 professors.

Internationally, the university is known for research relating to the genome of the  Populus tree and the  Norway  Spruce, and its highly ranked  Institute of (industrial)  Design.

The highest branch at  Umeå  University is the  University  Board of  Directors.  The board includes eight members (including the  Board  Chairman) appointed by the government, the  Vice- Chancellor, three representatives for the teachers, three for other employees, and three for the students.

The  University  Management consists of the  Vice- Chancellor (rector), pro-vice-chancellor,  Deputy  Vice- Chancellors,  Senior  Advisers and the  University  Director.

The university has four faculties and eight campus schools, more than 20 research centers and 35 departments.  Most education and research are located at the main campus and  Umeå  Arts  Campus in  Umeå, with additional campuses in the cities of  Skellefteå and Örnsköldsvik.  The total number of students enlisted to some of the 50 different study programs and 800 separate courses exceeds 34,000.

The  University today has four faculties, listed below in alphabetic order:

Umeå  University has eight  Campus  Schools, listed below in alphabetical order:

Prospective  Swedish students make their applications to all  Swedish universities at the  Swedish  Council for  Higher  Education website  Antagning.se and international students use its counterpart in  English,  Universityadmissions.se.  Information specific to non EU/EEA students (applications, tuition fees and scholarships) can be found at  Studyinsweden.se.

Umeå  University  Library (aka: UB) was established at the time of  Umeå  University's foundation in 1965, but has origins in from the  Scientific  Library in  Umeå established in 1950 at  Umeå  City  Library.  Its main building dates from 1968, but has since been extended and rebuilt, most recently in 2006.  There are subsidiary libraries at the  Norrland's  University  Hospital, at the  Umeå  Arts  Campus and in Örnsköldsvik.

Umeå  University has research departments and education in a broad range of academic disciplines, with more than thirty university departments conducting most teaching and research.  Since the 1990s there are also several research centers, mostly local but some in partnership with other  Swedish universities, such as the neighbouring  Swedish  University of  Agricultural  Sciences and  Luleå  University of  Technology.

The university is home to more than 2,000 researchers and teachers, many of them with international background.  Important research areas include ageing and population studies, infections, and forest research.

Practically all research papers produced by the university's researchers and students are to be found in the  Di VA ( Digital  Scientific  Archive) database, founded in 2000 (see link below).

In the latest (2012)  Academic  Ranking of  World  Universities, the university was ranked between places 201–300 of all universities in the world and at the same time by the QS  World  University  Rankings the university was ranked 297th in the world (overall).  In the latest (2012/2013)  Times  Higher  Education  World  University  Rankings 2012/2013  Umeå  University was ranked between 251 and 275 out of all global universities.

In 2012, the university was ranked 23rd in the world of higher education institutions under the age of 50 years by the  British magazine  Times  Higher  Education (THE).  In 2013 the university was ranked 1st of  Sweden in the  International  Student  Barometer on international student satisfaction by the  International  Graduate  Insight  Group.Konstfack, or  University  College of  Arts,  Crafts and  Design, is a university college for higher education in the area of art, crafts and design in  Stockholm,  Sweden.

Konstfack has had several different names since it was founded in 1844 by the ethnologist and artist  Nils Månsson  Mandelgren as a part-time art school for artisans, under the name "Söndags- Rit-skola för  Handtverkare" (" Sunday  Drawing  School for  Artisans").  The school was taken over by  Svenska  Slöjdföreningen (today known as  Svensk form) the next year and renamed  Svenska  Slöjdföreningens skola.

In 1857, the first two female students ( Sofi  Granberg and  Matilda  Andersson) were accepted, and the following year female students officially were invited to apply.

It became a state school and was renamed  Slöjdskolan i  Stockholm ( Handicraft  School in  Stockholm) in 1859; and in the context of a thorough reorganisation, where the school was divided into four departments in 1879, to  Tekniska skolan ( The  Technical  School).  From 1945 it was known as  Konstfackskolan ( The school of art departments), when the institution was divided into the departments devoted to distinct disciplines that remain largely today:  Textile,  Decorative art,  Sculpture,  Ceramics,  Furniture and  Interior  Design,  Metal and  Advertising and  Printing.  The school also obtained official status and had a two-year day school and a three-year arts and craft evening school.  To this was added a two-year higher  Arts and  Crafts school and a three-year  Art  Teacher institute.  It was given the status of a högskola ("university college") in 1978.  From 1993 it was called just  Konstfack, the short form of the name formerly used colloquially.

Long located on  Norrmalm, between  Klara kyrka and Hötorget, the school was in 1959 moved to a new building on  Valhallavägen with well-equipped workshops, designed by architects Gösta Åberg and  Tage  Hertzell.  In 2004, it once again moved to the former headquarters of LM  Ericsson at  Telefonplan in  Stockholm  Municipality.  The 20,300-square metre interior of the old factory building was redesigned by among others architect  Gert  Wingårdh.

Following the standards of the  Bologna process,  Konstfack offers bachelor's degree programmes (3 years, 180 ECTS credits,  Bachelor of  Fine  Arts), and master's degree programmes (2 years, 120 ECTS credits,  Master of  Fine  Arts).  There are also  Art  Education programmes (teacher programmes, 4,5 years and 5 years).  The 2-year  Animation education existed between 1996 and 2005; and was located in  Eksjö.

There are seven  Bachelor's  Programmes :

The  Undergraduate  Program is conducted in  Swedish.

There are five  Master's  Programmes:

One goal of  Konstfack's two-year  Graduate  Programmes is to attract both  Swedish and international students, and the education is held mainly in  English.

There is also a doctoral program given in collaboration with  Royal  Institute of  Technology:

The third year of the bachelor's program and the second year of the master's includes a degree project, ten weeks at BFA-level and twenty at MFA-level, ending with a public examination and, if the student passes the examination, an exhibition for all graduating students: the  Spring  Exhibition (Vårutställningen in  Swedish).  The annual exhibition usually takes place at  Konstfack during two weeks in  May, with around 150 exhibiting students, and attracts thousands of visitors.

  Link to the official website for the  Spring  Exhibition 2015 ( English version).

A selection of some distinguished former students at the different departments at  Konstfack ( Art or designer groups referred to by their collective names):

Graphic  Design &  Illustration:

  Carl  Johan  De  Geer (artist and designer),  Lasse Åberg (filmmaker),  Brita  Granström (artist and illustrator),  Lotta Kühlhorn,  Lars  Hall (advertising),  Oskar  Korsár (artist and illustrator),  Tuulikki  Pietilä (artist), RBG6 (motion graphics), REALA,  Stina  Wirsén (illustrator),  Ana  Biscaia.

Textiles:

  Astrid  Sampe,  Hans  Krondahl,  Mah- Jong (creators of intellectual fashion in the 60's & 70's),  Susanne  Pagold (fashion journalist), 10-gruppen.This  Swedish university, college or other education institution article is a stub.  You can help  Wikipedia by expanding it.The  University of  Agder ( Norwegian:  Universitetet i  Agder), formerly known as  Agder  College and  Agder  University  College, is a public university with campuses in  Kristiansand and  Grimstad,  Norway.  The institution was established as a university college (høgskole) in 1994 through the merger of  Agder  College and five other colleges, including a technical college and a nursing school, and became one of  Norway's new universities in 2007.  It is among the youngest and smallest of  Norway's eight universities.

The idea of a university in the  Agder region is not completely new.  In his short period as ruler of the union of  Denmark– Norway,  Johann  Friedrich  Struensee planned on reforming the  University of  Copenhagen.  He gave  Bishop  Johann  Ernst  Gunnerus of  Trondheim the task of developing more detailed plans.  Gunnerus presented a proposal in 1771 in which he suggested establishing a new university in  Norway, and placing it in  Kristiansand.

The motives for suggesting  Kristiansand as a university town have been debated.  Regardless, the idea was soon discarded as planning began for the first  Norwegian university.  In 1811, a resolution was passed to establish  Norway's first university in  Christiania ( Oslo).

Even without a university in the region, and as the need for better educated employees rose, several smaller colleges were established throughout the  Agder region.  The first,  Kristiansand  Teacher  Training  College was originally founded at  Holt,  Aust- Agder in 1839, making it one of the oldest institutions of higher education in  Norway.  It was followed by  Arendal  College of  Nursing (1920),  Agder  Music  Conservatory (1965),  Agder  Regional  College of  Technology (1967),  Agder  Regional  College (1969) and  Kristiansand  College of  Nursing (1976).

Agder  University  College was established by a merger in 1994, when the six public regional colleges in the  Agder counties became one institution.  The  University  College received full university accreditation and became the  University of  Agder on 1  September 2007.  In 2015, the  University of  Agder has approximately 12,000 students and 1,100 employees.

Ui A has a shared leadership.  The dean is elected by the students and members of staff and faculty, who becomes the head of the university board, and is responsible for the academic programmes and activities.  The university director is the head of administration, and is responsible for all economic and administrative affairs.

The  University of  Agder has six faculties as well as an own unit fior teacher education.

The teacher training programmes are organized in an interdisciplinary fashion.

Agder  University  Research  Archive (AURA) is a full text digital archive of scientific papers, theses and dissertations from the academic staff and students at the  University of  Agder.  The  University  Library administrates AURA.The  University of  Augsburg ( German:  Universität  Augsburg) is a university located in the  Universitätsviertel section of  Augsburg,  Germany.  It was founded in 1970 and is organized in 7  Faculties.

The  University of  Augsburg is a relatively young campus university with approx. 18,000 students in  Oct 2012.  About 14% of its students come from foreign countries, a larger percentage than at comparable  German universities.

In  October 2011  Sabine  Doering  Manteuffel succeeded  Alois  Loidl as rector of the university.  She is the first female rector of a  Bavarian university.

The current  President of  Germany  Joachim  Gauck holds a  Doctor honoris causa of the  University of  Augsburg.

These are the 7 faculties in which the university is divided into:

The individual faculties, the administration offices (including the  Student  Service  Centre), the refectory, cafeterias, bars, and the libraries are all close together.

The  University of  Augsburg was founded in 1970.  It is one of the new, modern universities in  Bavaria, and with approximately 18,000 ( Oct 2012) students it is still of a manageable size.  It attracts students from far beyond its immediate catchment area.  About 20% of the  German students come from outside  Bavaria, and at 14% its share of foreign students is larger than at comparable universities.

The  University of  Augsburg maintains partnerships with the  Universities of  Pittsburgh (USA),  Osijek ( Croatia) and  Iaşi ( Romania), and the  Far  Eastern  State  University of  Humanities, which is in  Khabarovsk ( Russia).  It has cooperation agreements with over forty universities in  Europe,  Asia,  South  Africa,  North  America and  Latin  America.  The number of ERASMUS exchange programmes also continues to grow.  There are currently exchange programmes with more than 130 universities throughout  Europe.

Anyone who has studied or carried out research here can keep in touch with the  University of  Augsburg once they have returned home. “ Alumni  Augsburg  International” is a network for  Augsburg students, too, as they can use it to find contacts.

Augsburg  University library consists of the central library plus libraries for social sciences, humanities and natural sciences.  It was founded along with the university in 1969 and was at first situated in the ducal residence ( Fronhof).  In 1970, it was moved to the campus of the old university at  Memminger  Straße.  The new central library on the current campus south of  Augsburg opened in 1984.  The library comprises a total of some 2.0 million items (as of 2007).

The  University of  Augsburg's  Language  Centre provides tuition in modern languages.  Students of philology receive practical language training in  English,  French,  Spanish,  Italian and  Portuguese.  In addition to this, the  Language  Centre offers courses specifically tailored to law and economics students, as well as the opportunity to study other languages such as  Russian,  Turkish or  Japanese.  Foreign students can improve their  German language skills in tandem with their other studies.  The  University of  Augsburg and the  University of  Applied  Sciences work closely together in a joint testing centre for  German as a  Foreign  Language (“ Test Da F- Zentrum”), which tests the  German language skills of international students.

The  University of  Augsburg has cooperation agreements with over 40 universities in  Europe,  Asia,  South  Africa,  North  America and  Latin  America.  Particularly close partnerships are maintained with the following 4 universities

On the 17.  November 2009 over 500 students occupied the lecture room number 1 to call attention to the bad conditions in  Augsburg and the entire  German educational system.  Specifically, they protested against the need for university students to pay tuition fees and what they perceived as a decline in education quality in the  German high school system.

They occupied the hall until the 22.  December, using it as a plenary meeting room, holding discussions, organizing theatre and concert performances, showing films, and presenting their claims to the university administration and the  Bavarian state.  They agreed to end the sit-in because the university vice-president gave assurances that he would solve the problems, which are part of the university itself.

Eventually, all  German states scrapped the experiment with university tuition fees in public universities, after mass student protests.The  University of  Bamberg ( German:  Otto- Friedrich- Universität  Bamberg) in  Bamberg,  Germany, specializes in the  Humanities,  Cultural  Studies,  Social  Sciences,  Economics and  Applied  Computer  Science.  It is one of the leading institutions for business studies and social sciences in  Bavaria.

The university today has four departments:

An agreement between  Bavaria and the  Vatican saw the faculty of  Catholic  Theology restructured as an institute which places a greater emphasis on teacher training.  In 2005, the  Social  Work course transferred to the  University of  Applied  Sciences in  Coburg.

The  Faculty of  Business and  Economics is widely recognised as a leading research and teaching faculty in  Germany.  It is ranked under the 20th best faculties for  Business, and placed 11 for  Economics.

The main areas of curricular focus, to which subjects across faculties contribute, are:

The  University of  Bamberg offers several exchange and research programmes to international universities.  The  European network includes the  University of  Cambridge and the  University of  Oxford.  The  University holds further partnerships in  Australia with the  University of  Sydney and the  University of  New  South  Wales, as well as in  Asia with the  Xi'an  Jiaotong  University, the  Korea  University, and  Sophia  University.

The university is mainly housed in historical buildings in  Bamberg’s  Old  Town.  These include the former  Jesuit college ( Theology), the former  Hochzeitshaus ( History), the old slaughterhouse ( Earth  Science), the former  Bauhof ( Communication  Studies), and the former fire station ( Oriental  Studies).  The departments of  Languages and  Literature are partly housed in buildings which once belonged to the  Kaiser- Heinrich  High  School.  The  Social  Sciences and  Economics department and the  Business  Information  Technology and  Applied  Computer  Science department, which accommodate a large proportion of the students, are in  Feldkirchenstrasse.  The former ERBA cotton mill, on an island in the  Regnitz, has been acquired to create student apartments in the red-brick building, as well as in an adjoining new 14,000m2 building.The  University of  Bayreuth is a public research university situated in  Bayreuth,  Germany.  It was founded in 1975 as a campus university focusing on international collaboration and interdisciplinarity.  The university has an outstanding reputation in a broad range of disciplines and currently maintains a network of more than 450 international cooperations with research institutes and universities around the world.  It is broadly organized into six undergraduate and graduate faculties, with each faculty defining its own admission standards and academic programs in near autonomy.

The university is renowned for offering several interdisciplinary courses such as  Philosophy &  Economics,  Global  Change  Ecology,  Theatre and  Media studies, and  Health  Economics.  The management, economics and law programs are ranked among the top degrees in  Germany.  In 2015 the university was ranked on place number 72 in the  Times  Higher  Education world university ranking for universities founded less than 50 years ago.  It is a member of the  Elite  Network of  Bavaria ( Elitenetzwerk  Bayern), a coalition of leading research universities jointly offering graduate programs and international doctorate programs.

The first chancellor was  Wolf- Peter  Hentschel from 1973 to  Oktober 1999, who was already head of the executive office since 1  January 1972.  From  November 1999 to 2010  Ekkehard  Beck was and since 2011  Markus  Zanner is chancellor of the  University of  Bayreuth.

The  University of  Bayreuth is divided into six faculties:

The  University library is divided into the following locations:

The  University has a capacity for approximately 10000 students, in winter term 2011/12 the number of enrolled peaked to approximately 11400 students due to the dual  Abitur cohorts.  Many study programmes use interdisciplinary approaches, i.e. " Philosophy &  Economics", " International  Economy and  Development", " Health  Economics", " Sports  Economics", " Polymer- and  Colloidal  Chemistry", " Geoecology", " Global  Change  Ecology" or " Applied  Informatics".

Karl- Theodor zu  Guttenberg,  German  Federal  Minister of  Defence, was awarded a summa cum laude doctorate by the  Faculty of  Law,  Business  Administration and  Economics in 2007.  After extensive plagiarism in zu  Guttenberg's dissertation was revealed in  February 2011,  German media also criticised the  University of  Bayreuth. A  University spokesman has denied allegations of bribery and political corruption.  The  University cancelled the doctorate and  Guttenberg was forced to resign.The  University of  Bergen ( Norwegian:  Universitetet i  Bergen) is a public university located in  Bergen,  Norway.  Although founded as late as 1946, academic activity had taken place at  Bergen  Museum as far back as 1825.  The university today serves approximately 17,000 students, and is one of eight universities in  Norway.

The  University of  Bergen, in common with other  Norwegian universities, does not charge tuition fees, which also applies to international students.  Students are however required to be members of the student welfare organisation.  As of  Fall 2015, this fee (semesteravgift) is NOK 590 (approx. US$ 72) per semester, and provides access to several services, including cultural activities, childcare, refunds for many medical expenses and subsidized accommodation. 40kr of the fee is a donation to the SAIH, a student charity, but this is optional.  However most of the students give the donation.

In 2010 the university was ranked as number 135 worldwide by the  Times  Higher  Education  World  University  Rankings, and 181st worldwide by the 2015/16 QS  World  University  Rankings.  Ui B was also ranked number 148 worldwide in the  July 2010  Webometrics  Ranking of  World  Universities.  The URAP ( University  Ranking by  Academic  Performance) has ranked  Ui B for 2014/2015 as the 219th worldwide.

The  University of  Bergen has an elected rector, currently  Dag  Rune  Olsen ( August 1, 2013–present).  The university has six faculties; the  University of  Bergen  Library and the  University  Museum of  Bergen have a faculty-like status.

The faculty revised its structure and names in  August 2007.

The  Faculty of  Law was established as a separate faculty in 1980, with legal studies and research having been conducted at the university since 1969.  The faculty is one of three  Norwegian institutions which offer legal studies, the other two being the law faculties at the  University of  Oslo and the  University of  Tromsø.  The faculty offers a five-year programme leading to a  Master's degree in law and a three-year  Ph D programme, and currently has approximately 1900 students.

Since  January 2013 the faculty is organised in the following departments and units:

The  University of  Bergen is the only institution in the  Nordic countries where the study of psychology has been assigned to its own faculty.  Established in 1980, it educates psychologists and is responsible for the  University's pedagogic education.

The  University also has an  Arboretum and  Botanical  Garden.Bielefeld  University ( German:  Universität  Bielefeld) is a university in  Bielefeld,  Germany.  Founded in 1969, it is one of the country's newer universities, and considers itself a "reform" university, following a different style of organization and teaching than the established universities.  In particular, the university aims to "re-establish the unity between research and teaching", and so all its faculty teach courses in their area of research.  The university also stresses a focus on interdisciplinary research, helped by the architecture, which encloses all faculties in one great structure.  It is among the first of the  German universities to switch some faculties (e.g. biology) to  Bachelor/ Master-degrees as part of the  Bologna process.

Bielefeld  University has started an extensive multi-phase modernisation project, which upon completion in 2025 would result in completely new university buildings to replace the 40-year-old main building. A total investment of more than 1 billion euros has been planned for this undertaking.

Bielefeld  University is known for its faculty of sociology.  It is associated with  Norbert  Elias and  Niklas  Luhmann, who were professors there.  The faculty of history launched the " Bielefeld  School" of  Social  History under  Hans- Ulrich  Wehler, while the  Laborschule and  Center for  Interdisciplinary  Research ( Zi F) are projects of the faculty of educational science.

The  Academic  Ranking of  World  Universities of 2010 places  Bielefeld in terms of mathematics among the four best universities of  Germany, the 21 best universities of  Europe and 51 to 76 best universities in the world, which confirms the ranking of 2009.  In the  Times  Higher  Education  World  University  Rankings of 2010-2011  Bielefeld is placed among the top 50 engineering and technology universities.  The  German  Center for  Higher  Education  Development  Excellence  Ranking, which measures academic performance of  European graduate programs in biology, chemistry, mathematics, and physics, placed  Bielefeld in the excellence group for mathematics, together with such universities as  Cambridge and ETH Zürich.

The university has the following faculties:

The  Oberstufen- Kolleg is a UNESCO  Project  School and as such it aims for international understanding and cooperation.  Since 1998, the  Kolleg has worked together with the  German  School of  Guayaquil in a charitable project to help in the development of the town of  Daular,  Ecuador, which project won a  United  Nations  Award in 2006/2007 for its international concept.

Bielefeld  University  Library occupies most of the first floor of the main university building and contains over 2.2 million volumes.  It is open every day of the year, from 08:00 until 01:00  Monday to  Friday, and from 09:00 to 22:00 during weekends and public holidays.

The library's projects include the development of tools to improve access to electronic resources.  It works with commercial system suppliers to meet the needs of academic libraries—collaborations that have resulted in developments such as BASE ( Bielefeld  Academic  Search  Engine), by which metadata is collected from scientific repository servers and indexed, along with data from selected web sites and data collections, using the  Solr framework.

Bielefeld  University was one of the centers of student protests in the fight against the introduction of tuition fees.  In the course of the protests, the central hall and the university president's office were occupied by protesting students for over a month.  In a vote organised by the A St A and the students parliament, about 94 percent of the participants voted against the introduction of tuition fees, although only 22 percent of the students cast their vote.  This is comparable to similar results at other  German universities.

In its session of  July 12, 2006, the university senate decided to introduce tuition fees of €500 per semester, beginning in 2007.

In  August 2006, a universal key for the university went missing during a senate session.  After that, multiple cases of arson and defacement of university property were reported.  University president  Dieter  Timmermann was a particular target of these attacks.  The cost of the damage, mainly due to the replacement of thousands of locks, was estimated at over a million euros.

The university is located in the west of  Bielefeld next to the  Teutoburg  Forest.  The main building, which houses all the faculties and institutes, as well as the large library, is a functional concrete structure, typical of the 1960s.

Intercity trains running between  Cologne/ Bonn and  Berlin stop regularly at  Bielefeld, and the university can be accessed via city tram ( Line 4) in about 10 minutes from the city center—or in about 15 minutes by car.  The nearest airport,  Paderborn/ Lippstadt, is about 50 kilometres southeast of  Bielefeld.The  University of  Bonn ( German:  Rheinische  Friedrich- Wilhelms- Universität  Bonn) is a public research university located in  Bonn,  Germany.  Founded in its present form in 1818, as the linear successor of earlier academic institutions, the  University of  Bonn is today one of the leading universities in  Germany.  The  University of  Bonn offers a large number of undergraduate and graduate programs in a range of subjects.  Its library holds more than five million volumes.  The  University of  Bonn has 544 professors and 32,500 students.  Among its notable alumni and faculty are seven  Nobel  Laureates, three  Fields  Medalist, twelve  Gottfried  Wilhelm  Leibniz  Prize winners,  Prince  Albert,  Pope  Benedict XVI,  Frederick III,  Karl  Marx,  Heinrich  Heine,  Friedrich  Nietzsche,  Konrad  Adenauer, and  Joseph  Schumpeter.  The  Times  Higher  Education  World  University  Rankings 2016 and the  Academic  Ranking of  World  Universities 2015 ranked the  University of  Bonn as one of the 100 best universities in the world.

The university's forerunner was the  Kurkölnische  Akademie  Bonn ( English:  Academy of the  Prince-elector of  Cologne) which was founded in 1777 by  Maximilian  Frederick of Königsegg- Rothenfels, the prince-elector of  Cologne.  In the spirit of the  Enlightenment the new academy was nonsectarian.  The academy had schools for theology, law, pharmacy and general studies.  In 1784  Emperor  Joseph II granted the academy the right to award academic degrees ( Licentiat and  Ph.D.), turning the academy into a university.  The academy was closed in 1798 after the left bank of the  Rhine was occupied by  France during the  French  Revolutionary  Wars.

The  Rhineland became a part of  Prussia in 1815 as a result of the  Congress of  Vienna.  Shortly after the seizure of the  Rhineland, on 5  April 1815,  King  Frederick  William III of  Prussia promised the establishment of a new university in the new  Rhine province ( German: den aus  Landesväterlicher Fürsorge für ihr  Bestes gefaßten  Entschluß, in  Unsern  Rheinlanden eine  Universität zu errichten).  At this time there was no university in the  Rhineland, as all three universities that existed until the end of the 18th century were closed as a result of the  French occupation.  The  Kurkölnische  Akademie  Bonn was one of these three universities.  The other two were the  Roman  Catholic  University of  Cologne and the  Protestant  University of  Duisburg.

The new  Rhein  University ( German:  Rhein- Universität) was then founded on 18  October 1818 by  Frederick  William III.  It was the sixth  Prussian  University, founded after the universities in  Greifswald,  Berlin, Königsberg,  Halle and  Breslau.  The new university was equally shared between the two  Christian denominations.  This was one of the reasons why  Bonn, with its tradition of a nonsectarian university, was chosen over  Cologne and  Duisburg.  Apart from a school of  Roman  Catholic theology and a school of  Protestant theology, the university had schools for medicine, law and philosophy.  Inititally 35 professors and eight adjunct professors were teaching in  Bonn.

The university constitution was adopted in 1827.  In the spirit of  Wilhelm von  Humboldt the constitution emphasized the autonomy of the university and the unity of teaching and research.  Similar to the  University of  Berlin, which was founded in 1810, the new constitution made the  University of  Bonn a modern research university.

Only one year after the inception of the  Rhein  University the dramatist  August von  Kotzebue was murdered by  Karl  Ludwig  Sand, a student at the  University of  Jena.  The  Carlsbad  Decrees, introduced on 20  September 1819 led to a general crackdown on universities, the dissolution of the  Burschenschaften and the introduction of censorship laws.  One victim was the author and poet  Ernst  Moritz  Arndt, who, freshly appointed university professor in  Bonn, was banned from teaching.  Only after the death of  Frederick  William III in 1840 was he reinstated in his professorship.  Another consequence of the  Carlsbad  Decrees was the refusal by  Frederick  William III to confer the chain of office, the official seal and an official name to the new university.  The  Rhein  University was thus nameless until 1840, when the new  King of  Prussia,  Frederick  William IV gave it the official name  Rheinische  Friedrich- Wilhelms- Universität.

Despite these problems the university grew and attracted famous scholars and students.  At the end of the 19th century the university was also known as the  Prinzenuniversität ( English: Princes' university), as many of the sons of the king of  Prussia studied here.  In 1900 the university had 68 chairs, 23 adjunct chairs, two honorary professors, 57  Privatdozenten and six lecturers.  Since 1896, women were allowed to attend classes as guest auditors at universities in  Prussia.  In 1908 the  University of  Bonn became fully coeducational.

The growth of the university came to a halt with  World  War I.  Financial and economic problems in  Germany in the aftermath of the war resulted in reduced government funding for the university.  The  University of  Bonn responded by trying to find private and industrial sponsors.  In 1930 the university adopted a new constitution.  For the first time students were allowed to participate in the self-governing university administration.  To that effect the student council  Astag ( German:  Allgemeine  Studentische  Arbeitsgemeinschaft) was founded in the same year.  Members of the student council were elected in a secret ballot.

After the  Nazi takeover of power in 1933 the  Gleichschaltung transformed the university into a  Nazi educational institution.  According to the Führerprinzip the autonomous and self-governening administration of the university was replaced by a hierarchy of leaders resembling the military, with the university president being subordinate to the ministry of education.  Jewish professors and students and political opponents were ostracized and expelled from the university.  The theologian  Karl  Barth was forced to resign and to emigrate to  Switzerland for refusing to swear an oath to  Hitler.  The  Jewish mathematician  Felix  Hausdorff was expelled from the university in 1935 and committed suicide after learning about his impending deportation to a concentration camp in 1942.  The philosophers  Paul  Ludwig  Landsberg and  Johannes  Maria  Verweyen were deported and died in concentration camps.  In 1937  Thomas  Mann was deprived of his honorary doctorate.  His honorary degree was restored in 1946.

During the second  World  War the university suffered heavy damage.  An air raid on 18  October 1944 destroyed the main building.  The university was re-opened on 17  November 1945 as one of the first in the  British occupation zone.  The first university president was  Heinrich  Matthias  Konen, who was expelled from the university in 1934 because of his opposition to  Nazism.  At the start of the first semester on 17  November 1945 the university had more than 10,000 applicants for only 2,500 places.

The university greatly expanded in the postwar period, in particular in the 1960s and 1970s.  Significant events of the postwar era were the relocation of the university hospital from the city center to the  Venusberg in 1949, the opening of the new university library in 1960 and the opening of a new building, the  Juridicum, for the  School of  Law and  Economics in 1967.

In 1980 the  Pedagogigal  University  Bonn was merged into the  University of  Bonn, although eventually all the teachers education programs were closed in 2007.  In 1983 the new science library was opened.  In 1989  Wolfgang  Paul was awarded the  Nobel  Prize in  Physics.  Three years later  Reinhard  Selten was awarded the  Nobel  Prize in  Economics.  The decision of the  German government to move the capital from  Bonn to  Berlin after the reunification in 1991 resulted in generous compensation for the city of  Bonn.  The compensation package included three new research institutes affiliated or closely collaborating with the university, thus significantly enhancing the research profile of the  University of  Bonn.

In the 2000s the university implemented the  Bologna process and replaced the traditional  Diplom and  Magister programs with  Bachelor and  Master programs.  This process was completed by 2007.

The  University of  Bonn has 32,500 students, and 4,000 of these are international students.  Each year about 3,000 undergraduate students graduate.  The university also confers about 800  Ph.D.s and about 60 habilitations.  More than 90 programs in all fields are offered.  Strong fields as identified by the university are mathematics, physics, law, economics, neuroscience, medical genetics, chemical biology, agriculture,  Asian and  Oriental studies and  Philosophy and  Ethics.  The university has a standing faculty of more than 500 professors, an academic staff of 3,900 and a support staff of 4,800.  The annual budget was more than 570 million  Euros in 2014.

From the foundation in 1818 to 1928 the  University of  Bonn had five schools, that is, the  School of  Catholic  Theology, the  School of  Protestant  Theology, the  School of  Law and the  School of  Arts and  Science.  In 1928 the  School of  Law and the  Department of  Economics, that until then was part of the  School of  Arts and  Science, merged into the new  School of  Law and  Economics.  In 1934 the until then independent  Agricultural  University  Bonn- Poppelsdorf ( German:  Landwirtschaftliche  Hochschule  Bonn- Poppelsdorf) was merged into the  University of  Bonn as the  School of  Agricultural  Science.  In 1936 the science departments were separated from the  School of  Arts and  Science.  Today the university is divided into seven schools:

The  Franz  Joseph Dölger- Institute studies the late antiquity and in particular the confrontation and interaction of  Christians,  Jews and  Pagans in the late antiquity.  The institute edits the  Reallexikon für  Antike und  Christentum, a  German language encyclopedia treating the history of early  Christians in the late antiquity.  The institute is named after the church historian  Franz  Joseph Dölger who was a professor of theology at the university from 1929 to 1940.

The  Research  Institute for  Discrete  Mathematics focuses on discrete mathematics and its applications, in particular combinatorial optimization and the design of computer chips.  The institute cooperates with IBM and  Magma  Design  Automation.  Researchers of the institute optimized the chess computer IBM  Deep  Blue.

The  Bethe  Center for  Theoretical  Physics "is a joint enterprise of theoretical physicists and mathematicians at various institutes of or connected with the  University of  Bonn.  In the spirit of  Hans  Bethe it fosters research activities over a wide range of theoretical and mathematical physics."  Activities of the  Bethe  Center include short and long term visitors program, workshops on dedicated research topics, regular  Bethe  Seminar  Series, lectures and seminars for graduate students.

The  German  Reference  Center for  Ethics in the  Life  Sciences ( German:  Deutsches  Referenzzentrum für  Ethik in den  Biowissenschaften) was founded in 1999 and is modeled after the  National  Reference  Center for  Bioethics  Literature at  Georgetown  University.  The center provides access to scientific information to academics and professionals in the fields of life science and is the only of its kind in  Germany.

After the  German  Government's decision in 1991 to move the capital of  Germany from  Bonn to  Berlin, the city of  Bonn received generous compensation from the  Federal  Government.  This led to the foundation of three research institutes in 1995, of which two are affiliated with the university:

The  Institute for the  Study of  Labor ( German:  Forschungsinstitut zur  Zukunft der  Arbeit) is a private research institute that is funded by  Deutsche  Post.  The institute concentrates on research on labor economics, but is also offering policy advise on labor market issues.  The institute also awards the annual IZA  Prize in  Labor  Economics.  The department of economics of the  University of  Bonn and the institute closely cooperate.

The  Max  Planck  Institute for  Mathematics ( German:  Max  Planck- Institut für  Mathematik) is part of the  Max- Planck- Gesellschaft, a network of scientific research institutes in  Germany.  The institute was founded in 1980 by  Friedrich  Hirzebruch.

The  Max  Planck  Institute for  Radio  Astronomy ( German:  Max- Planck- Institut für  Radioastronomie) was founded in 1966 as an institute of the  Max- Planck- Gesellschaft.  It operates the radio telescope in  Effelsberg.

The  Max  Planck  Institute for  Research on  Collective  Goods ( German:  Max- Planck- Institut zur  Erforschung von  Gemeinschaftsgütern) started as a research group in 1997 and was founded as an institute of the  Max- Planck- Gesellschaft in 2003.  The institute studies collective goods from a legal and economic perspective.

The  Center for  Economics and  Neuroscience founded in 2009 by  Christian  Elger,  Gottfried  Wilhelm  Leibniz  Prize winner  Armin  Falk,  Martin  Reuter and  Bernd  Weber, provides an international platform for interdisciplinary work in neuroeconomics.  It includes the  Laboratory for  Experimental  Economics that can carry out computer-based behavioral experiments with up to 24 participants simultaneously, two magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanners for interactive behavioral experiments and functional imaging, as well as a biomolecular laboratory for genotyping different polymorphisms.

University of  Bonn researchers made fundamental contributions in the sciences and the humanities.  In physics researchers developed the quadrupole ion trap and the  Geissler tube, discovered radio waves, were instrumental in describing cathode rays and developed the variable star designation.  In chemistry researchers made significant contributions to the understanding of alicyclic compounds and  Benzene.  In material science researchers have been instrumental in describing the lotus effect.  In mathematics  University of  Bonn faculty made fundamental contributions to modern topology and algebraic geometry.  The  Hirzebruch– Riemann– Roch theorem,  Lipschitz continuity, the  Petri net, the  Schönhage– Strassen algorithm,  Faltings' theorem and the  Toeplitz matrix are all named after  University of  Bonn mathematicians.  University of  Bonn economists made fundamental contributions to game theory and experimental economics.  Famous thinkers that were faculty at the  University of  Bonn include the poet  August  Wilhelm  Schlegel, the historian  Barthold  Georg  Niebuhr, the theologians  Karl  Barth and  Joseph  Ratzinger and the poet  Ernst  Moritz  Arndt.

The university has nine collaborative research centres and five research units funded by the  German  Science  Foundation and attracts more than 75 million  Euros in external research funding annually.

The  Excellence  Initiative of the  German government in 2006 resulted in the foundation of the  Hausdorff  Center for  Mathematics as one of the seventeen national  Clusters of  Excellence that were part of the initiative and the expansion of the already existing  Bonn  Graduate  School of  Economics (BGSE).  The  Excellence  Initiative also resulted in the founding of the  Bonn- Cologne  Graduate  School of  Physics and  Astronomy (a honors  Masters and  Ph D program, jointly with the  University of  Cologne).  Bethe  Center for  Theoretical  Physics was founded in the  November 2008, to foster closer interaction between mathematicians and theoretical physicists at  Bonn.  The center also arranges for regular visitors and seminars (on topics including  String theory,  Nuclear physics,  Condensed matter etc.).

According to the  Academic  Ranking of  World  Universities compiled by researchers of the  Shanghai  Jiao  Tong  University the  University  Bonn is ranked 97th internationally.  The  Times  Higher  Education  Supplement ranks the  University of  Bonn 53rd worldwide in the science category and 84th worldwide in the social science category.  Webometrics ranks the  University of  Bonn 126th worldwide, 32nd in  Europe and 9th nationally.

In the field of economics, the  Faculty of  Economics ranked 1st in  Germany and 18th in  Europe in 2007 according to the  Journal of the  European  Economic  Association with regard to publications in top journals.  University of  Bonn is ranked 1st in  Germany, 16th in  Europe and 61st worldwide based on research contribution from 2004 to 2008 in top economics schools ranking by  Cent ER for  Research in  Economics and  Business.  According to CHE  Research  Ranking 2008  Department of  Economics at the  University of  Bonn belongs to the ranking's top group.   Academic  Ranking of  World  Universities ranks the  University of  Bonn between 76th-100th worldwide in 2009 for its economics category.  In  Handelsblatt- Ranking its  Department of  Economics is ranked 3rd in 2010 in  German-speaking countries.

In national rankings the  University of  Bonn is ranked in the top ten by the news magazine  Focus and the  German  Research  Foundation.  The  Humboldt  Foundation ranks the  University of  Bonn fifth in the humanities and social sciences, sixth in the life sciences and seventh in science.

The 2012 QS  World  University  Rankings ranked the university 151st overall in the world, and 63rd in  Natural sciences.  In the 2015/16  Times  Higher  Education  World  University  Rankings, the university placed 94th.

The  University of  Bonn does not have a centralized campus.  The main building is the  Kurfürstliches  Schloss, the former residential palace of the prince-elector of  Cologne in the city center.  The main building was built by  Enrico  Zuccalli for the prince-elector of  Cologne,  Joseph  Clemens of  Bavaria from 1697–1705.  Today it houses the faculty of humanities and theology and the university administration.  The  Hofgarten, a large park in front of the main building is a popular place for students to meet, study and relax.  The  Hofgarten was repeatedly the place for political demonstrations as for example the demonstration against the NATO  Double- Track  Decision on 22  October 1981 with about 250,000 participants.

The school of law and economics, the main university library and several smaller departments are housed in modern buildings a short distance south of the main building.  The department of psychology and the department of computer science are located in a northern suburb of  Bonn.

The science departments and the main science library are located in  Poppelsdorf and  Endenich, west of the city center, and housed in a mix of historical and modern buildings.  Notable is the  Poppelsdorf  Palace ( German:  Poppelsdorfer  Schloss), which was built from 1715 to 1753 by  Robert de  Cotte for  Joseph  Clemens of  Bavaria and his successor  Clemens  August of  Bavaria.  Today the  Poppelsdorf  Palace houses the university's mineral collection and several science departments; its grounds are the university's botanical garden (the  Botanische Gärten der  Friedrich- Wilhelms- Universität  Bonn).

The school of medicine is located on the  Venusberg, a hill on the western edge of  Bonn.  Several residence halls are scattered across the city.  In total the  University of  Bonn owns 371 buildings.

The university library was founded in 1818 and started with 6,000 volumes inherited from the library of the closed  University of  Duisburg.  In 1824 the library became legal deposit for all books published in the  Prussian  Rhine province.  The library contained about 200,000 volumes at the end of the 19th century, and about 600,000 volumes at the outbreak of  World  War II.  An air raid on 10  October 1944 destroyed about 200,000 volumes and a large part of the library catalog.  After the war the library was housed in several makeshift locations until the completion of the new central library in 1960.  The new building was designed by  Pierre  Vago and  Fritz  Bornemann and is located close to the main building.  In 1983 a new library building was opened in  Poppelsdorf, west of the main building.  The new library building houses the science, agriculture and medicine collections.  Today, the university library system comprises the central library, the library for science, agriculture and medicine and about 160 smaller libraries.  It holds 2.2 million volumes and subscribes to about 14,000 journals.

The university hospital ( German: Universitätsklinikum  Bonn) was founded at the same time as the university and officially opened on 5  May 1819 in the  Poppelsdorf  Palace ( German: Poppelsdorfer  Schloss) west of the main building.  In its first year, the hospital had thirty beds, performed 93 surgeries and treated about 600 outpatients.  In 1883 the hospital moved to a new building in the city center of  Bonn, and after  World  War II to the  Venusberg on the western edge of  Bonn.  On 1  January 2001 the university hospital became a public corporation.  Although the university hospital is since then independent from the university, the  School of  Medicine of the  University of  Bonn and the university hospital closely collaborate.  Today the university hospital comprises about thirty individual hospitals, employs more than 670 physicians and more than 1,100 nursing and clinical support staff and treated about 39,000 inpatients.

The  Akademisches  Kunstmuseum ( English:  Academic  Museum of  Antiquities ) was founded in 1818 and has one of the largest collections of plaster casts of ancient  Greek and  Roman sculptures in the world.  At this time collections of plaster casts were mainly used in the instruction of students at art academies.  They were first used in the instruction of university students in 1763 by  Christian  Gottlob  Heyne at  University of Göttingen.  The  Akademisches  Kunstmuseum in  Bonn was the first of its kind, as at this time collections at other universities were scattered around universities libraries.  The first director was  Friedrich  Gottlieb  Welcker, who also held a professorship of archaeology.  His tenure was from 1819 until his retirement in 1854.  He was succeeded by  Otto  Jahn and  Friedrich  Wilhelm  Ritschl, who shared the directorship.  From 1870 to 1889  Reinhard  Kekulé von  Stradonitz, nephew of the famous organic chemist  Friedrich  August  Kekulé von  Stradonitz, was the director.  In 1872 the museum moved to a new building that was formerly used by the department of anatomy.  The building was constructed from 1823 to 1830 and designed by  Karl  Friedrich  Schinkel and  Hermann  Friedrich  Waesemann.  Other directors of the museum were  Georg  Loeschcke (from 1889 to 1912),  Franz  Winter (from 1912 to 1929),  Richard  Delbrueck (from 1929 to 1940),  Ernst  Langlotz (from 1944 to 1966),  Nikolaus  Himmelmann (from 1969 to 1994) and  Harald  Mielsch (since 1994).  All directors, with the exception of  Friedrich  Wilhelm  Ritschl held a professorship of archaeology at the university.

The  Egyptian  Museum ( German: Ägyptisches  Museum) was founded in 2001.  The collection dates back to the 19th century and was formerly part of the  Akademisches  Kunstmuseum.  Large parts of the collection were destroyed in  World  War II.  Today the collection comprises about 3,000 objects.

The  Arithmeum was opened in 1999.  With over 1,200 objects it has the world's largest collection of historical mechanical calculating machines.  The museum is affiliated with the  Research  Institute for  Discrete  Mathematics.

The  Teaching  Collection of  Archaeology and  Anthropology ( German:  Archäologisch-ethnographische  Lehr- und  Studiensammlung) was opened in 2008.  The collection comprises more than 7,500 objects of mostly pre- Columbian art.

The  Botanical  Garden was officially founded in 1818 and is located around the  Poppelsdorf  Palace. A garden existed at the same place at least since 1578, and around 1720 a  Baroque garden was built for  Clemens  August of  Bavaria.  The first director of the  Botanical  Garden was  Nees von  Esenbeck from 1818 to 1830.  In  May 2003 the world's largest  Titan arum, some 2.74 meters high, flowered in the  Botanical  Garden for three days.

The natural history museum was opened in 1820 by  Georg  August  Goldfuss.  It was the first public museum in the  Rhineland.  In 1882 it was split into the  Mineralogical  Museum located in the  Poppelsdorf  Palace and a museum of palaeontology, now named  Goldfuß  Museum of  Palaeontology.

The  Horst  Stoeckel- Museum of the  History of  Anesthesiology ( German:  Horst  Stoeckel- Museum für die  Geschichte der  Anästhesiologie) was opened in 2000 and is the largest of its kind in  Europe.

The  Museum  Alexander  Koenig is one of the largest natural history museums in  Germany and is affiliated with the university.  The museum was founded in 1912 by  Alexander  Koenig, who donated his collection of mounted specimen to the public.  See also the separate article  Museum  Koenig.

To date, seven  Nobel prizes and two  Fields  Medals have been awarded to faculty and alumni of the  Rheinische  Friedrich- Wilhelms- Universität  Bonn:

Among its notable alumni and faculty are  Pope  Benedict XVI,  Karl  Marx,  Joseph  Goebbels,  Heinrich  Heine,  Heinrich  Hertz,  Maria von  Linden,  Friedrich  Hirzebruch,  Friedrich  Nietzsche,  Friedrich  August  Kekulé von  Stradonitz,  Joseph  Schumpeter,  Konrad  Adenauer,  Max  Ernst,  Constantin  Carathéodory,  Karl  Weierstrass,  Mehmet  Celal  Bey,  Karl  Barth,  Wolfgang  Kaleck,  Johannes  Sobotta,  Margaret  Altmann,  Hans  Riegel,  Samson  Raphael  Hirsch and  Sebastian  Thrun.

See also  List of  University of  Bonn peopleThe  University of  Borås (UB) is a  Swedish university college in the city of  Borås.  It was founded in 1977 and has around 13 000 students.

The  University of  Borås is a modern university located in the centre of the city. UB has 13 000 students and 700 employees.  Several of our study programmes can only be found here with us and this attracts students from all over  Sweden.

As of  July 1, 2014 the  University is organised within three faculties:  Faculty of  Textiles,  Engineering and  Business,  Faculty of  Caring  Science,  Work  Life and  Social  Welfare and  Faculty of  Librarianship,  Information,  Education and IT.

The  University offers courses and study programmes within the areas of:  Library and  Information  Science,  Business and  Informatics,  Fashion and  Textile  Studies,  Behavioural and  Education  Sciences,  Engineering and  Health  Sciences

Our research is organised in six areas:  Business and IT,  The  Human  Perspective in  Care,  Library and  Information  Science,  Swedish  Centre for  Resource  Recovery,  Teacher  Education and  Education  Work and  Textiles and  Fashion (design and general).  We are entitled to award doctoral degrees within three of these areas;  Library and  Information  Science,  Resource  Recovery,  The  Human  Perspective in  Care and  Textiles and  Fashion (design and general).

Together with the business sphere as well as the public sector we manage education and research of high international quality and social relevance.  We call it “ Science for the professions” and it influences everything that we do.  The administrative support at the  University is organised within  Professional  Services.

University of  Borås is a member of the  European  University  Association, EUA. EUA represents and supports higher education institutions in 46 countries, providing them with a unique forum to cooperate and keep abreast of the latest trends in higher education and research policies.

The  University of  Borås was founded through the  Swedish  Higher  Education reform of 1977.  At that time, two educational programmes were already in place:  The preschool seminar (based 1966) and the  Librarian  College (established 1972).The  University of  Bremen ( German  Universität  Bremen) is one of 11 institutions classed as an " Elite university" in  Germany, and a university of approximately 23,500 people from 126 countries that are studying, teaching, researching, and working in  Bremen.  It has become the science center of  North  West  Germany.

The university has a most notable reputation in political science, industrial engineering, digital media, physics, mathematics, microbiology, geosciences (particularly marine geosciences), and  European law.

Its commitment was rewarded with the title “ Stadt der  Wissenschaft 2005” ( City of  Science of 2005), which science, politics, business and culture won jointly for  Bremen and  Bremerhaven, by the  Foundation for  German  Science ( Stifterverband für die  Deutsche  Wissenschaft).

Some of the paths that were taken back then, also referred to as the " Bremen model", have since become characteristics of modern universities, such as interdisciplinary, explorative learning, social relevance to practice-oriented project studies which enjoy a high reputation in the academic world as well as in business and industry.  Other reform approaches of the former ‘new university’ have proven to be errors such as waiving a mid-level faculty, tripartite representation or too “student-friendly” examination regulations and were given up in  Bremen a few years ago.

These are the twelve faculties into which the university is divided:

Though  Bremen became a university city only recently, higher education in  Bremen has a long tradition.  The  Bremen  Latin  School was upgraded to " Gymnasium  Academicum" in 1584. 1610 it was transformed into " Gymnasium  Illustre".  Under  Napoleonic rule in 1811 the institution of a " French- Bremen  University" was considered.  In 1971 the  University of  Bremen opened its doors.

The development of the  University of  Bremen can be divided up into steps of 10 to 12 years – first foundation, then restructuring, consolidation and profile building.  At the beginning of the 1970s, the  University was set up as a “science complex”in , a city oriented towards trade and seafaring that had no experience with academia, particularly not with leftist professors.  University, business and the public in the region did not move closer together until the 1980s, through the foundation of the natural science and engineering departments, co-operation with the newly founded  Alfred  Wegener  Institute for  Polar and  Marine  Research in  Bremerhaven (1980), as well as the development of the co-located technology park (from 1988).  Other important factors were the initial success in setting up collaborative research centres and in the acquisition of considerable of external funds.  The mathematics professor Jürgen  Timm, elected university rector in 1982, was largely responsible for this turnaround.

As a consequence, the  University of  Bremen improved in research rankings, gained national recognition, and established a number of endowment professorships.  Research excellence and its interdisciplinary profile is reflected in the establishment of numerous research centers and programs funded by the  German  Research  Foundation (DFG).  These currently include eight collaborative research centers and the  Research  Center of  Ocean  Margins, one of only six national research centers of the DFG.

From 1996 until 2001 the  University of  Bremen (along with six other universities in  Germany) participated in a pilot scheme for structural reform of university administration, funded by the  Volkswagen  Foundation.  This project improved the co-operation and communication between the university's administration, teaching and research units.  With the realization of the " Laptop  University" project, the  University of  Bremen became a leading university in the field of digital media education in  Germany.

By 2000, after an organisational development process of three years in which the university set goals for the development of its profile, this trend was continued with the promotion of junior scientists in structured graduate programs, and staff development programs for the great number of early-stage researchers entering the university as junior professors.  In teaching, there are comprehensive evaluations, more specific admission requirements, and improved completion rates for  Bachelors and master's degrees.The  University of  Cologne ( German:  Universität zu Köln) was the sixth university to be established in  Central  Europe and, although it closed in 1789 before being re-established in 1919, it is now one of the largest universities in  Germany with more than 48,000 students.  The university has been part of the  German  Universities  Excellence  Initiative since 2012, and as of 2015 it ranks 156th globally according to  Times  Higher  Education, 305th according to QS  World  University  Rankings and between 151 and 200 according to the  Academic  Ranking of  World  Universities.

The  University of  Cologne was established in 1388 as the fourth university in the  Holy  Roman  Empire, after the  Charles  University of  Prague (1348), the  University of  Vienna (1365) and the  Ruprecht  Karl  University of  Heidelberg (1386).  The charter was signed by  Pope  Urban VI.  The university began teaching on  January 6, 1389.  In 1798, the university was abolished by the  French, who had invaded  Cologne in 1794, because under the new  French constitution, universities were abolished all over  France. The last rector  Ferdinand  Franz  Wallraf was able to preserve the university’s  Great  Seal, now once more in use.

In 1919, the  Prussian government endorsed a decision by the  Cologne  City  Council to re-establish the university.  On  May 19, 1919, the  Cologne  Mayor  Konrad  Adenauer signed the charter of the modern university.

At that point, the new university was located in  Neustadt-Süd, but relocated to its current campus in  Lindenthal on 2  November 1934.  The old premises are now being used for the  Cologne  University of  Applied  Sciences.

Initially, the university was composed of the  Faculty of  Commerce,  Economics and  Social  Sciences (successor to the  Institutes of  Commerce and of  Communal and  Social  Administration) and the  Faculty of  Medicine (successor to the  Academy of  Medicine).  In 1920, the  Faculty of  Law and the  Faculty of  Arts were added, from which latter the  School of  Mathematics and  Natural  Sciences was split off in 1955 to form a separate  Faculty.  In 1980, the two  Cologne departments of the  Rhineland  School of  Education were attached to the university as the  Faculties of  Education and of  Special  Education.  In 1988, the university became a founding member of the  Community of  European  Management  Schools and  International  Companies (CEMS), today's  Global  Alliance in  Management  Education.

The  University is a leader in the area of economics and is regularly placed in top positions for law and commerce, both for national and international rankings.

The  University of  Cologne is a statutory corporation (Körperschaft des öffentlichen  Rechts), operated by the  Federal  State of  North  Rhine- Westphalia.

The university is divided into six faculties, which together offer 200 fields of study.  The faculties are those of  Management,  Economics and  Social  Sciences,  Law,  Medicine (with the affiliated  University clinic),  Arts,  Mathematics and  Natural  Sciences and  Human  Sciences.

On  November 24, 2004,  Axel  Freimuth was elected as the  Rector of the  University.  His four-year term began on  April 1, 2005.  He succeeded  Tassilo Küpper and is the 49th  Rector since 1919.  He was previously  Dean of  Mathematics and  Natural  Sciences.

In 2005, the  University enrolled 47,203 students, including 3,718 graduate students.  In 2003, the number of post-doctoral students was 670.

The number of international students was 6,157 in the  Summer  Semester of 2005.  This amounts to approximately 13% of the total students.  Those from developing countries made up about 60%, representing a total of 123 nations.  The largest contingents came from  Bulgaria (10.5%),  Russia (8.8%),  Poland (7.4%),  China (6.2%) and  Ukraine (5.7%).

There are 508 professors at the university, including 70 women.  In addition, the university employs 1,549 research assistants, with an additional 765 at the clinic, and 1,462 other assistants (3,736 at the clinic).

The  University of  Cologne maintains twenty official partnerships with universities from ten countries.  Of these, the partnerships with  Clermont- Ferrand I and  Pennsylvania  State are the oldest partnerships.  In addition,  Cologne has further cooperations with more than 260 other universities.

Over the centuries, scholars from  Cologne have been among the most prominent in their fields, beginning with  Albertus  Magnus and his pupil  Thomas  Aquinas (both 13th century).  Notable alumni of the 20th century include among others  Kurt  Alder ( Nobel  Prize in  Chemistry 1950),  Peter  Grünberg ( Nobel  Prize in  Physics 2007),  Heinrich Böll ( Nobel  Prize for  Literature),  Karl  Carstens (president of the  Federal  Republic of  Germany 1979–1984),  Gustav  Heinemann (president of the  Federal  Republic of  Germany 1969 to 1974),  Karolos  Papoulias (former president of the  Hellenic  Republic), and  Erich  Gutenberg (founder of modern  German business studies).The  University of  Copenhagen (UCPH) ( Danish: Københavns  Universitet) is the oldest university and research institution in  Denmark.  Founded in 1479 as a studium generale, it is the second oldest institution for higher education in  Scandinavia after  Uppsala  University (1477).  The university has 23,473 undergraduate students, 17,398 postgraduate students, 2,968 doctoral students and over 9,000 employees.  The university has four campuses located in and around  Copenhagen, with the headquarters located in central  Copenhagen.  Most courses are taught in  Danish; however, many courses are also offered in  English and a few in  German.  The university has several thousands of foreign students, about half of whom come from  Nordic countries.

The university is a member of the  International  Alliance of  Research  Universities (IARU), along with  University of  Cambridge,  Yale  University,  The  Australian  National  University, and UC  Berkeley, amongst others.  The 2016  Academic  Ranking of  World  Universities ranks the  University of  Copenhagen as the best university in  Scandinavia and 30th in the world, the 2016-2017  Times  Higher  Education  World  University  Rankings as 120th in the world, and the 2016-2017 QS  World  University  Rankings as 68th in the world.  The university has had 8 alumni become  Nobel laureates and has produced one  Turing  Award recipient.

The university is governed by a board consisting of 11 members: 6 members recruited outside the university form the majority of the board, 2 members are appointed by the scientific staff, 1 member is appointed by the administrative staff, and 2 members are appointed by the university students.  The rector, the prorector and the director of the university is appointed by the university board.  The rector in turn appoints directors of the different parts of the central administration and deans of the different faculties.  The deans appoint heads of 50 departments.  There is no faculty senate and faculty is not involved in the appointment of rector, deans, or department heads.  Hence the university has no faculty governance, although there are elected  Academic  Boards at faculty level who advise the deans.  The governing body manages an annual budget of about BDKK 8.3.

The  University is organized into six faculties and about 100 departments and research centres.  The  University employs about 5,600 academic staff and 4,400 technical and administrative staff.

The total number of enrolled students is about 40,000 annually, including about 23,000 undergraduate students and 17,000 graduate students. UCPH has established an international graduate talent program which provides grants for international  Ph. D, students and a tenure track carrier system. UCPH operates about fifty master’s programmes taught in  English, and has arranged about 150 exchange agreements with other institutions and 800  Erasmus agreements.  Each year there are about 1,700 incoming exchange students, 2,000 outbound exchange students and 4,000 international degree-seeking students.  About 3,000  Ph. D. students study there each year.

The  University of  Copenhagen currently has six faculties:

The university has four main campus areas that are located in the  Capital  Region (three in  Copenhagen and one in  Frederiksberg):

The  Faculty of  Health and  Medical  Sciences and the  Faculty of  Science also use the  Taastrup  Campus, which is located in  Taastrup on the western outskirts of  Copenhagen.  The  Faculty of  Science also has facilities in  Helsingør, Hørsholm and Nødebo.

The  University of  Copenhagen was founded in 1479 and is the oldest university in  Denmark.  Between the closing of the  Studium  Generale in  Lund in 1536 and the establishment of the  University of  Aarhus in the late 1920s, it was the only university in  Denmark.  The university became a centre of  Roman  Catholic theological learning, but also had faculties for the study of law, medicine, and philosophy.

The university was closed by the  Church in 1531 to stop the spread of  Protestantism, and re-established in 1537 by  King  Christian III after the  Lutheran  Reformation and transformed into an evangelical- Lutheran seminary.  Between 1675 and 1788, the university introduced the concept of degree examinations.  An examination for theology was added in 1675, followed by law in 1736.  By 1788, all faculties required an examination before they would issue a degree.

In 1807, the  British fleet bombarded  Copenhagen during the  Bombardment of  Copenhagen, destroying most of the university's buildings.  By 1836, however, the new main building of the university was inaugurated amid extensive building that continued until the end of the century.  The university library, the  Zoological  Museum, the  Geological  Museum, the  Botanic  Garden with greenhouses, and the  Technical  College were also established during this period.

Between 1842 and 1850, the faculties at the university were restructured.  Starting in 1842, the  University  Faculty of  Medicine and the  Academy of  Surgeons merged to form the  Faculty of  Medical  Science, while in 1848 the  Faculty of  Law was reorganised and became the  Faculty of  Jurisprudence and  Political  Science.  In 1850, the  Faculty of  Mathematics and  Science was separated from the  Faculty of  Philosophy.

The first female student was enrolled at the university in 1877.  The university underwent explosive growth between 1960 and 1980.  The number of students rose from around 6,000 in 1960 to about 26,000 in 1980, with a correspondingly large growth in the number of employees.  Buildings built during this time period include the new  Zoological  Museum, the  Hans  Christian Ørsted and  August  Krogh  Institutes, the campus centre on  Amager  Island, and the  Panum  Institute.

The new university statute instituted in 1970 involved democratisation of the management of the university.  It was modified in 1973 and subsequently applied to all higher education institutions in  Denmark.  The democratisation was later reversed with the 2003 university reforms.  Further change in the structure of the university from 1990 to 1993 made a  Bachelor's degree programme mandatory in virtually all subjects.

Also in 1993, the law departments broke off from the  Faculty of  Social  Sciences to form a separate  Faculty of  Law.  In 1994, the  University of  Copenhagen designated environmental studies, north-south relations, and biotechnology as areas of special priority according to its new long-term plan.  Starting in 1996 and continuing to the present, the university planned new buildings, including for the  University of  Copenhagen  Faculty of  Humanities at  Amager (Ørestaden), along with a  Biotechnology  Centre.  By 1999, the student population had grown to exceed 35,000, resulting in the university appointing additional professors and other personnel.

In 2003, the revised  Danish university law removed faculty, staff and students from the university decision process, creating a top-down control structure that has been described as absolute monarchy, since leaders are granted extensive powers while being appointed exclusively by higher levels in the organization.

In 2005, the  Center for  Health and  Society ( Center for  Sundhed og  Samfund – CSS) opened in central  Copenhagen, housing the  Faculty of  Social  Sciences and  Institute of  Public  Health, which until then had been located in various places throughout the city.  In  May 2006, the university announced further plans to leave many of its old buildings in the inner city of  Copenhagen, an area that has been home to the university for more than 500 years.  The purpose of this has been to gather the university's many departments and faculties on three larger campuses in order to create a bigger, more concentrated and modern student environment with better teaching facilities, as well as to save money on rent and maintenance of the old buildings.  The concentration of facilities on larger campuses also allows for more inter-disciplinary cooperation; for example, the  Departments of  Political  Science and  Sociology are now located in the same facilities at CSS and can pool resources more easily.

In  January 2007, the  University of  Copenhagen merged with the  Royal  Veterinary and  Agricultural  University and the  Danish  University of  Pharmaceutical  Science.  The two universities were converted into faculties under the  University of  Copenhagen, and were renamed as the  Faculty of  Life  Sciences and the  Faculty of  Pharmaceutical  Sciences.  In  January 2012, the  Faculty of  Pharmaceutical  Sciences and the veterinary third of the  Faculty of  Life  Sciences merged with the  Faculty of  Health  Sciences forming the  Faculty of  Health and  Medical  Sciences – and the other two thirds of the  Faculty of  Life  Sciences were merged into the  Faculty of  Science.

Although many privately owned dormitories (kollegier in  Danish) exist in  Copenhagen, there are also five which are partially administered by the university.  Only students who have passed at least two years of studies are considered for admission.  These are normally referred to as the old dormitories, and they consist of  Regensen,  Elers'  Kollegium,  Borchs  Kollegium,  Hassagers  Kollegium, and  Valkendorfs  Kollegium.

Contrary to the tradition of most  American dormitories,  Danish dormitories in general, and the old dormitories in particular, only offer single rooms for rent, meaning no student has to share their room with others. The  University of  Copenhagen  Housing  Foundation can assist with housing.

The university's oldest known seal dates from a 1531 letter, it depicts  Saint  Peter with a key and a book.  In a circle around him is the text

When the university was re-established by  Christian III in 1537 after the  Protestant  Reformation, it received a new seal, showing king  Christian III with crown, sceptre, and globus cruciger above a crowned coat of arms vertically divided between halved versions of the coat of arms of  Denmark (to the viewer's left, dexter) and the coat of arms of  Norway (to the viever's right, sinister).  The text is

The 1537 seal is very similar to the current seal, which was made in 2000 and is shown at the top of this page.  The text is different and the crowned shield shows the coat of arms of  Denmark (as has been the case since 1820, when the heraldic reference to  Norway was removed).  The text is

In addition to the university seal, each of the university's six faculties carry seals of their own.

The 2016  Academic  Ranking of  World  Universities published by  Shanghai  Jiao  Tong  University ranks the  University of  Copenhagen as the best university in  Denmark and  Scandinavia, the 6th best university in  Europe, and 30th in the  Top 500  World  Universities ranking.  The 2015  Academic  Ranking of  World  Universities's  Alternative  Ranking 2015 (excluding award factor) ranks the  University of  Copenhagen 30th in the world.  In the  Times  Higher  Education  World  University  Rankings for 2016-2017, the  University of  Copenhagen is ranked at 120th overall in the world.  In the 2016-2017 QS  World  University  Rankings list, the  University of  Copenhagen was ranked 68th.  In the 2016 U.S.  News &  World  Report's  Best  Global  Universities  Rankings list, the  University of  Copenhagen was ranked 61st.

The university cooperates with universities around the world.  In  January 2006, the  University of  Copenhagen entered into a partnership of ten top universities, along with the  Australian  National  University, ETH Zürich,  National  University of  Singapore,  Peking  University,  University of  California  Berkeley,  University of  Cambridge,  University of  Oxford,  University of  Tokyo and  Yale  University.  The partnership is referred to as the  International  Alliance of  Research  Universities (IARU).Heinrich  Heine  University Düsseldorf (HHU) ( German:  Heinrich- Heine- Universität Düsseldorf) was founded in 1965 as the successor organisation to Düsseldorf’s  Medical  Academy of 1907.  Following several expansions throughout the decades, the university has comprised five faculties since 1993.  At present, more than 20,000 full-time students are pursuing studies at HHU.  There is a total staff of approximately 2,900 persons at HHU (academic and non-academic).

The "early history" of Düsseldorf  University began with the Düsseldorf  Academy for  Practical  Medicine in 1907.  The city’s first real university, however, was only founded in 1965 by adding a combined  Faculty of  Natural  Sciences– Arts and  Humanities to the existing medical one.  Only four years later the university split the combined faculty into two separate bodies, which led to the constitution of a  Faculty of  Arts and  Humanities as well as a  Faculty of  Mathematics and  Natural  Sciences.  In 1979 a modern  University and  State  Library was opened to the public, and a sports centre was added in 1980/81.  Following a quarrel of more than 23 years, the "nameless" university of Düsseldorf was finally christened after the poet  Heinrich  Heine, one of Düsseldorf’s most famous sons, in 1989.  From this period on, the campus university has been opening up towards the city and its citizens.  Heinrich  Heine  University’s  Faculty of  Business  Administration and  Economics opened in 1990, the  Faculty of  Law in 1993.

With more than 3,000 students in the winter semester 2011/12, the  Medical  Faculty is HHU’s third largest unit.  Study offers range from  Medicine and  Dentistry (state examination) through  Toxicology (M. Sc.) to  Public  Health and  Endocrinology (both M. Sc., further education).  Graduate studies have been institutionalised in the form of the faculty-wide  Medical  Research  School Düsseldorf, which offers networking, services and counselling for both graduate students and their supervisors.  Further structured doctorate support is provided by research training groups in neurosciences (RTG 1033, i Brain), in hepatology (research training in CRC 974) and in tumor research (Düsseldorf  School of  Oncology DSO).  Research hubs with a significant volume of third-party founded collaborative projects are hepatology (CRC 974 and  Research  Unit 217), cardiovascular research, neurosciences, surgery ( Research  Unit 1585), infectiology and immunology ( Research  Unit 729), and diabetes and metabolism research.  The  Biomedical  Research  Centre (BMFZ), the  Leibniz- Institute for  Environmental  Medicine (IUF), the C. and O.  Vogt  Institute for  Brain  Research and the  German  Diabetes  Centre (DDZ) are important organisations that form the local research environment.

About 8,000 students (winter semester 2011/12) in currently 26 B.A. and M.A. programmes make the  Faculty of  Arts and  Humanities HHU’s largest unit.  The  German- French master programme  Media  Culture  Analysis /  Analyse de  Pratiques  Culturelles, enables students to obtain a double diploma of both the HHU and the  University of  Nantes.  At doctoral level the academy of the  Faculty of  Arts and  Humanities,  Phil Grad, offers a broad range of counselling and career-relevant courses.  Further support for structured doctorates provide programmes in the history of art (RTG 1678), in linguistics (research training in CRC 991), in ageing-related studies and in democracy research ( Link. De) as well as within two  German- Italian programmes ( Interculturality and  Communication, " Doctor  Europaeus").  Among the research hubs in the faculty are linguistics (CRC 991), politics ( Research  Unit 1381), ancient history (funded by the NRW  Academy for the  Arts and  Sciences), the history of art, and editing studies (complete works editions of  Max  Weber and  Martin  Buber in progress).  Beyond that, the  Faculty of  Arts and  Humanities contributes to HHU’s  Institute of  German and  International  Party  Law and  Party  Research (P Ru F).

HHU’s second largest faculty offers its approximately 6,500 students (winter semester 2011/12) ten basic programmes (B.A. and state examination) and nine graduate programmes (M. Sc.).  Special programmes such as the four-year „bachelor plus", in which students spend one year at  Michigan  State  University, USA, and the international M. Sc. in  Biology enable students to gain international experience.  The faculty has institutionalised support for doctoral studies in the form of i GRAD, the  Interdisciplinary  Graduate and  Research  Academy Düsseldorf to establish network structures and offer counselling and training services for doctoral students, supervisors and research training groups.  Further backing for structured doctorates provide the following programmes: RTG 1203  Dynamics in  Hot  Plasms (DFG),  Graduate  Cluster CLIB, NRW  Research  Academy  Biostruct, RTG " Molecules of  Infection" ( Manchot  Foundation), the international graduate school i GRAD- Plant in collaboration with the  Forschungszentrum Jülich and  Michigan  State  University, US; and the internally funded initiatives vivid, e-norm, and i GRAS Pseed.  Research hubs with a significant volume of third-party founded collaborative projects are biology ( Cluster of  Excellence on  Plant  Sciences CEPLAS) and physics (CRC-TR 6, CRC-TR 18).  The  Biomedical  Research  Center (BMFZ) and the  Bioeconomy  Science  Center (a cluster of 54 departments of the universities of  Aachen,  Bonn and Düsseldorf, as well as the  Forschungszentrum Jülich) are important organisations forming the local research environment.

One of HHU’s smaller faculties, the  Faculty of  Business  Administration and  Economics, attracted about 1,100 students in the winter semester 2011/12.  The faculty is housed in the futuristic  Oeconomicum building and offers  Business  Administration (B. Sc. and M. Sc.),  Economics (B. Sc. and M. Sc.) and  Business  Chemistry (B. Sc. and M. Sc., in cooperation with the  Faculty of  Mathematics and  Natural  Sciences).  Further education is provided by the Düsseldorf  Business  School (DBS), which offers MBA- Programmes against a tuition fee.  Examples are  General  Management MB As (in  German as well as in  English) and  Health  Management (in cooperation with the  Health  Care  Academy Düsseldorf). A major research hub in economics is competition economics, funded through the DFG ANR  Project and centred in the Düsseldorf  Institute for  Competition  Economics (DICE).  Business studies focus on finance, accounting, management and marketing.

The  Faculty of  Law offers practically oriented courses for the state examination in law through cooperation with various local institutions (e.g. courts such as the  Appeal  Court,  District  Court and  Finance  Court).  Beyond that, specialties are a  German- French course of studies together with the  University of  Cergy- Pontoise and extra-curricular qualifications in  Anglo- American law.  Further education is provided by Düsseldorf  Law  School (DLS), which offers postgraduate masters in the protection of commercial rights, information rights and medical rights against a tuition fee.  Research focuses on commercial law,  European law and international law.  Hubs are the  Centre for  Information and  Technology  Law ( Zf I), the  Centre for  Medical  Law (IMR), the  Insurance  Law  Institute, and the  Institute of  German and  International  Party  Law and  Party  Research (P Ru F).

HHU’s motto, " Life. Nature. Society", suggests its core competencies in research and teaching.  Effective cooperation with university and non-university partners led to a rise in third-party funding from 49 million  Euros in 2008 to 67 million  Euros in 2011.  Projects of the  Medical  Faculty account for circa 35 million  Euros of this competitive budget.

Renowned research collaborations and high-class individual projects made various national and international successes possible:

In 2012 HHU and its partner institutions – the  University of  Cologne, the  Max  Planck  Institute for  Plant  Breeding  Research and  Forschungszentrum Jülich – received the grant for the  Cluster of  Excellence CEPLAS in the  Excellence  Initiative of the  German  Federal and  State  Governments. CEPLAS will investigate solutions for a resource-efficient plant growth against the backdrop of a growing world population on the one hand and dwindling natural resources on the other.

HHU is currently involved in 23 international projects funded within the EU’s  Seventh  Framework  Programme. 11 further international projects have just ended.  Two HHU researchers at the  Faculty of  Mathematics and  Natural  Sciences have thus far attained the highest award at  European  Level, the ERC  Advanced  Grant.

Three of HHU’s faculties have installed graduate academies to provide the best possible conditions for doctoral work.  These will receive support by the  Heine  Research  Academies ( He RA) network, which will address questions of fundamental importance in doctoral education.  All graduate academies join forces in the effort to assure consistent and reliable quality standards in doctoral education as well as to provide extra-curricular training in interdisciplinary and disciplinary key skills.

HHU promotes research- and knowledge-based start-ups.  Its concept to strengthen an entrepreneurial culture at and around HHU was successful in the EXIST competition of the  Federal  Ministry of  Economics and  Technology ( Germany).  The  Centre for  Entrepreneurship Düsseldorf (CEDUS) functions as HHU’s local one-stop shop for all queries related to self-employment and starting one’s own company.  Available support includes coaching, the acquisition of grants, professional training and further education.  The transfer agency DIWA  Gmb H is responsible for any coordinated activity in this field.

Teaching enjoys top priority at HHU.  In recent years the university has undertaken substantial efforts to improve study conditions and the quality of teaching through various projects:

HHU successfully competed in the  Quality  Pact for  Teaching of the  Federal  Government and the Länder.  This resulted in a nine-million- Euro grant for the university’s integrated quality improvement scheme "i Qu" over the coming five years.  Cornerstones of this project are increased students’ success rates at high levels of academic quality, designing a systematic training concept for all teaching staff, and reinforcing the e-learning and e-teaching concepts already established during the  Hein E Comp project.

To support new students during their first weeks and months at HHU, senior students have been offering orientation tutorials for several years.  These are meant to communicate both subject-specific studying and working techniques as well as to act as practical guides to the support and service structures of the university.

In addition to academic knowledge, social key competences and language skills are essential prerequisites for a successful start into working life.  This is why HHU offers counselling and training in job-relevant skills through its  Careers service, the  Languages  Centre, the  Department  German as a  Foreign  Language, the  General  Studies  Centre, and the job-oriented modular study programme KUBUS.  These services, which are open to all students, have been combined under the roof of the  Student  Academy since  October 2012.

HHU invests up to 300,000  Euros per year to promote teaching and study projects that feature outstanding innovations.  This nationally unique action has so far supported nearly one hundred projects since the implementation of the respective teaching fund in 2008.  Beyond that, students can nominate especially active and innovative teachers for several awards.  The hein@ward for e-teaching and the HHU teaching award, for example, make original teaching and study concepts visible within the university community.

The  Student  Service  Centre (SSC) offers counselling and services for 12 hours each day from  Monday to  Friday.  Beyond this regular service, various events in the course of each academic year address students’ information demands.  Examples are the campus fair or the information day giving insights into how to study and live in Düsseldorf.

Internationalisation efforts at HHU reflect the university’s goals and measures as formulated in its internationalisation strategy.  Up until 2015 HHU’s internationalisation activities will focus on the areas of undergraduate, graduate, and doctoral studies as well as teaching.  Thereby, bringing together students with different backgrounds plays an important role: HHU not only provides support for students, staff, and teachers planning to spend time abroad, but also engages in the promotion of internationalisation@home experiences.  Measures also include the improvement of extensive assistance for international students, researchers, and guests.

With 15 per cent of international students, HHU traditionally enjoyed an above-average popularity among  German destinations.  Due to the constant rise in higher education demand by  German students in recent years, however, this percentage has declined to around 12 per cent.

HHU is a signatory of the  National  Code of  Conduct for  German  Universities  Regarding  International  Students and fully supports the measures proposed therein.  In detail, HHU students profit from the following measures:

At present five degree programmes at HHU are taught in  English:  The  Faculty of  Arts and  Humanities offers  English  Studies (B.A.),  Comparative  Studies in  English and  American  Literature (M.A.) and  European  Studies (M.A.); furthermore, an  International M. Sc. in  Biology and an  English-language M. Sc. in  Physics address students at the  Faculty of  Mathematics and  Natural  Sciences.  International doctoral research programmes are available in the " Faculties" section.

Key regions of HHU’s internationalisation activities are  Europe, USA,  Japan and the  Near  East.  At the moment there are 13 collaborations at university level, 80 collaborations in research or teaching at faculty or institute level, and over 140  Erasmus partnerships.

The central administration has five departments: student affairs, academic management, personnel and organisation, finance, and facility management.  It is the backbone of the university in terms of formal structures and governance processes.  Head of approximately 340 administrative staff is the chancellor.  Furthermore, the chancellor’s three staff offices are responsible for legal advisory, work safety and protection of the environment, and internal auditing.  Current tasks for the university administration are the implementation of a campus management system as well as the renovation and improvement of campus infrastructure.

The ULB Düsseldorf is one of three state libraries in  North  Rhine- Westphalia and one of  Germany’s innovation leaders in the library sector due to its high service standards and the volume of its collections (currently 4 stars in the public library ratings.  In its university library function, it collects, archives and cares for scientific resources.  In its state library function, it does alike for regional literature.

As a central unit and (multi) media centre of HHU, the ZIM provides competencies and services in the field of digital information delivery and processing.  Further fields of activity are digital communication and digital media.

The  Botanical  Garden of Düsseldorf is a scientific institution of HHU, which cultivates about 6,000 different kinds of plants from all around the globe.  It is open to visitors throughout the whole year.

It is a central goal of HHU to ensure the equal treatment of women and men regarding working conditions and career options.  Together with the further improvement of family friendliness, these issues and goals have been formalised in the university’s equal opportunity concept.  The university has been certified for its family friendliness (since 2008, certificate renewed in 2011) and bears the " Total E- Quality" label (since 2007, certificate renewed in 2010).  Concrete equal opportunity measures are the  Selma Meyer Mentoring programme, a coaching for female professors, the COMEBACK programme to facilitate the reintegration of young parents in an academic career, and special qualification programmes for female researchers. A family counselling office was opened in 2006: it organises babysitting for emergency situations, activities for kids during school holidays, and father-and-child activities.

HHU’s roughly triangular campus is located in the southeast of Düsseldorf, in the  Bilk district.  To the north, it borders on the campus of the university hospital with which it forms a unit.  Both campuses together expand over approximately 1,300,000 square metres (circa 130 hectares).  This unusually direct link between university and university hospital creates a "scientific suburb" on Düsseldorf’s south-eastern border.  At the moment many buildings on campus are being renovated and modernised, especially the lecture halls, four of which will be back in working condition by autumn 2013.  As with many structures of the 1960s and 1970s, the building substance needs to be updated in terms of technical specifications and health requirements.  For example, a newly built  Student  Service  Centre (SSC) will be available in 2013.  Already completed are the new  Oeconomicum building ( Faculty of  Business  Administration and  Economics) and the new O.A.S.E. library (medical literature) – the latter one of  Germany’s most up-to-date structures for individual study and group work

Sports are coordinated by the students’ representation (A St A) of Düsseldorf’s four higher education institutions in a joint initiative.  On offer are about 100 kinds of sports, workshops and sports holidays.  Once a year the four A St As organise a common sports day.  Musical initiatives include the A St A’s  Local  Heroes event, a platform for local bands, as well as jam sessions.  There is also a semi-professional university orchestra.  Once a year the short film competition for young talents from the region takes place on campus.  There are various (student) associations, clubs, networks and societies.  Examples are the local UNICEF group, a debating club, the  European  Student  Network and the campus radio.  Since 1989 the  Heinrich  Heine  Guest  Lecture has repeatedly drawn high-profile speakers to the university’s campus.  These guest professors usually perform a small series of lectures for the general public on topic(s) that are currently in the focus of public attention.  Speakers have included, for example,  Marcel  Reich- Ranicki,  Helmut  Schmidt and  Joschka  Fischer.  New traditions have come to supplement the guest lecture: since 2010 the " University  Speech" and since 2011 the " Heinrich  Heine  Professorship for  Business and  Economics", both performed by external speakers of high calibre.

As a  German public university, HHU receives funding from the  Land of  North  Rhine- Westphalia and therefore does not charge tuition fees.  However, a small service charge of currently about 230  Euros per semester (winter semester 2012/13) has become necessary to cover the expenses of the A St A, of student services such as housing and canteen organisation ( Studentenwerk) and the semester ticket for free rides on all local trains and busses.  Various scholarships are available to cover specific student expenses and/or needs.  For example, there are bursary programmes to cover living costs, facilitate stays abroad, or to finish one’s final thesis.  Within the  National  Scholarship  Programme at  German universities, for example, HHU currently ranks among the top 5 providers of scholarships.

Heinrich  Heine  University Düsseldorf is a public corporation of the  Land of  North  Rhine- Westphalia.  Its degree of autonomy from state ministries and other legal bodies is defined in the  Higher  Education  Autonomy  Act (HFG) of 31  October 2006.  The rectorate (also called the president’s office, see HFG §15) manages the university.  Its members are the president, four vice-presidents and the chancellor.  From  October 2008 to 2014, the president has been the physiologist  Professor  Michael  Piper.  Since  November 2014  Professor  Anja  Steinbeck is the president of the HHU.

The  University  Council consists of three internal and five external members.  It gives advice to the president’s office and supervises their administration of university business (§21,3 HFG).  The first  University  Council was inaugurated in  October 2007.  Current chairperson of the council is  Anne- José  Paulsen, a judge and president of the  Appeal  Court of Düsseldorf ( Oberlandesgericht Düsseldorf).

The  Senate is the central democratic organ for discussions between the university’s various status groups.  Their representatives are elected by the university public.  Further senate members are the chancellor and the president.  University law gives the senate the right to confirm elected rectorate members in their office.  Furthermore, it can give "recommendations and statements" concerning the university’s development.  To a certain extent, statements have a binding character for the  President’s  Office.

Each faculty council represents the interests of the various status groups within a faculty.  It elects a dean as the head of faculty management ( Dean’s  Office).  Deans represent a faculty and its interests to the president’s office.

The student parliament is the highest plenary organ of all matriculated students at HHU.  The central representative of student life and the voice of students’ demands in university politics is the A St A ( Allgemeiner  Studierendenausschuss).  One student association for each academic subject represents the interests of the students within the university community.The  University of  Duisburg- Essen ( German:  Universität  Duisburg- Essen) is a public university in  Duisburg and  Essen,  North  Rhine- Westphalia,  Germany and a member of the newly founded  University  Alliance  Metropolis  Ruhr.  It was founded in 1654 and re-established on 1  January 2003 as a merger of the  Gerhard  Mercator  University of  Duisburg and the  University of  Essen.  Until 1994 the name of the  Gerhard  Mercator  University was  Comprehensive  University of  Duisburg.

With its 12 departments and more than 39,000 students, the  University of  Duisburg- Essen is among the 10 largest  German universities.  Many international students study at the  University of  Duisburg- Essen and give the cities of  Duisburg and  Essen an international atmosphere.

Origins;  The  University of  Duisburg (1555)  Its origins date back to the 1555 decision of  Duke  Wilhelm V von Jülich- Kleve- Berg to create a university for the unified duchies at the  Lower  Rhine.  To this end, it was necessary to obtain a permission of the emperor and the pope.  Although the permission of the pope was granted in 1564 and of the emperor in 1566, the university was founded about ninety years later in 1654, after the acquisition of the duchy of  Kleve by  Frederick  William,  Elector of  Brandenburg.  It opened on 14  October 1655 by  Johannes  Claudberg as their first rector.  The university had four faculties:  Theology,  Medicine,  Law and  Arts.  During its period of activity it was one of the central and leading universities of the western provinces of  Prussia.

Only a few decades later the university was in competition with the much better equipped  Dutch universities.  Since only about one third of the population in the western provinces of  Prussia were member of the reformed church, most  Lutheran and  Catholic citizens in the second half of the 18th century, sent their sons to other universities.

The university declined rapidly and was on 18  October 1818 due to a  Cabinet  Order of  Friedrich  Wilhelm III. officially closed.  At the same time, the  University of  Bonn was founded.  Large parts of the  Duisburg  University  Library were relocated to  Bonn and then formed the basis of the newly formed  Bonn  Library.  Also the sceptre of the  University of  Duisburg was given to the  University of  Bonn, and is available until today.

In 1891 the  Rheinisch- Westfälische Hüttenschule was settled from  Bochum to  Duisburg, which was later developed to the Königlich- Preußischen  Maschinenbau- und Hüttenschule, and was renamed in 1938 to  Public  School of  Engineering.

After a decision of the federal state government in 1960 the teacher training college of  Kettwig was settled to  Duisburg and was named  Pedagogical  University  Ruhr.  In 1968, the university was founded again in  Duisburg, related to the old one, bearing the name:  Comprehensive  University of  Duisburg.  Initially only small, the university was developed rapidly in the 1970s up to about 15,000 students.  In 1972 the  Pedagogical  University  Ruhr and the  Public  School of  Engineering, which was renamed in 1971 to  University of applied sciences  Duisburg.  Other schools were also relocated to  Duisburg.  The  University of  Duisburg was then called  Comprehensive  University of  Duisburg.  In 1994 the university was renamed  Gerhard  Mercator  University.

In 2003,  Gerhard  Mercator  University merged with the  University of  Essen to form the  University of  Duisburg- Essen, which is today one of the largest universities in  Germany with about 30,000 students.

In 2013  Duisburg- Essen  University is ranked number 69 in the  World's top 100 universities under 50 years old: ranked by  Times  Higher  Education.

In  March 2007 the three universities of  Bochum,  Dortmund and  Duisburg and  Essen founded the  University  Alliance  Metropolis  Ruhr, which is modelled on the  University of  California system.

The  University of  Duisburg- Essen today has twelve faculties, listed below:

The  University of  Duisburg- Essen awards the  Mercator- Professur to individuals who are well known for their social and scientific engagement.  So far, recipients of the  Mercator- Professur have been:The  University of  Erfurt ( German:  Universität  Erfurt) is a public university located in  Erfurt,  Germany, the capital city of the state of  Thuringia.  Originally founded in 1379, the university was closed in 1816 for the next 177 years, until its re-establishment in 1994, three years after the reunification of  Germany.  It therefore constitutes both the oldest and youngest universities in  Germany.  The institution identifies itself as a reform university, occasioned by the attendance of  Lutheran theologian  Martin  Luther's from 1501 to 1505.  Today, the main foci center on multidisciplinarity, internationality, and mentoring.  In contrast to the research profile, most of the students come from the region itself.

The  University of  Erfurt is home to such institutes as the  Max  Weber  Center for  Advanced  Cultural and  Social  Studies, the  Gotha  Research  Center for  Cultural and  Social  Scientific  Studies, and the  Willy  Brandt  School of  Public  Policy.

Holding one of  Germany's largest collections of early modern documents, the  Gotha  Research  Library belongs to the  University of  Erfurt.  The  Erfurt– Gotha library system also houses the famous  Bibliotheca  Amploniana—a collection of nearly 1000 medieval manuscripts collected by the scholar  Amplonius  Rating de  Berka—and encompasses the  Perthes  Collection, preserved in the  Perthes  Forum.

The  University of  Erfurt was founded in 1379 in the  Holy  Roman  Empire, in terrority which is now modern day  Germany.  When the town of  Erfurt became part of  Prussia in 1816, the government closed the university after more than 400 years of operation.

Lying in the state of  Thuringia,  Erfurt was part of the  German  Democratic  Republic ( East  Germany) from 1949 to 1990.  In  December 1993, the  State  Government of  Thuringia,  Landtag of  Thuringia, voted to re-establish the university.  The university was officially re-founded on  January 1, 1994.  Lectures began in the winter term of 1999/2000.  Shortly afterwards, the rector who had overseen the founding,  Peter  Glotz, a politician in the SPD party, left the university.  The position was taken over by  Wolfgang  Bergsdorf, a friend of  Thuringia's  Minister-president  Bernhard  Vogel.  In 2001, the  Erfurt  Teachers'  Training  College (Pädagogische  Hochschule  Erfurt), founded in 1953, became part of the university.  On  January 1, 2003, a fourth faculty was added to the university: the  Roman  Catholic  Theological  Faculty, which previously belonged to  Erfurt's  Philosophical and  Theological  Centre ( Philosophisch- Theologisches  Studium  Erfurt).  In the same year, a chronic lack of financing meant that there were many redundancies and that vacancies were left unfilled.  Once this situation led to student protests all over  Thuringia, the university administration and committees were reformed to stabilise it.

The  University of  Erfurt is a liberal arts university with reform and socio-cultural profile.  The close integration of the  Philosophical,  Educational  Research,  Governmental  Studies, and  Catholic  Theological  Faculty, as well as the  Max  Weber  Center, promotes interdisciplinary alongside innovative approaches to research and teaching through a mentoring program.

The  University of  Erfurt has no tuition fees and represents the first institution of higher education to receive the family-friendly certificate for employers.

The  University of  Erfurt has five faculties and three academic institutes:

Currently following colleges and research teams are part of the  Erfurt doctoral and postdoctoral program (EPPP):

In the summer semester of 2003, a project group was formed at the university to take part in the  National  Model  United  Nations (NMUN) in  New  York  City in  April 2004.  The pilot project has become a regular, student-organized seminar at the university.  The various groups received several awards for their participation at the conference in 2006, 2007, and 2008.Friedrich- Alexander  University  Erlangen-Nürnberg ( German:  Friedrich- Alexander- Universität  Erlangen-Nürnberg, FAU) is a public research university in the cities of  Erlangen and  Nuremberg in  Bavaria,  Germany.  The name  Friedrich- Alexander comes from the university's first founder  Friedrich,  Margrave of  Brandenburg- Bayreuth, and its benefactor  Christian  Frederick  Charles  Alexander,  Margrave of  Brandenburg- Ansbach.

In  Germany, traditional liberal arts universities do not usually have an engineering school or department.  However, FAU does have a distinct engineering faculty.

FAU is the second largest state university in the state  Bavaria.  It has 5 faculties, 23 departments/schools, 30 clinical departments, 19 autonomous departments, 656 professors, 3,404 members of academic staff and roughly 13,000 employees.

In winter semester 2014/15 around 39,085 students (including 3,556 foreign students) enrolled in the university in 239 fields of study, with about 2/3 studying at the  Erlangen campus and the remaining 1/3 at the  Nuremberg campus.  These statistics put FAU in the list of top 10 largest universities in  Germany.

In 2013, 5251 students graduated from the university and 663 doctorates and 50 post-doctoral theses were registered.  Moreover, FAU received 171 million  Euro (2013) external funding in the same year, making it one of the strongest third-party funded universities in  Germany.

In 2006 and 2007, as part of the national excellence initiative, FAU was chosen by the  German  Research  Foundation as one of the winners in the  German  Universities  Excellence  Initiative. FAU is also a member of DFG ( Deutsche  Forschungsgemeinschaft) and the  Top  Industrial  Managers for  Europe network.

In  Academic  Ranking of  World  Universities for year 2014, FAU ranked second among  German universities in  Engineering/ Technology and  Computer  Sciences group for all four ranking parameters TOP, FUN,  Hi Ci and PUB.

The university was founded in 1742, in  Bayreuth by  Frederick,  Margrave of  Brandenburg- Bayreuth, and moved to  Erlangen in 1743.  Christian  Frederick  Charles  Alexander,  Margrave of  Brandenburg- Ansbach (one of the two namesakes of the institution) provided significant support to the early university.  From the beginning, the university was a  Protestant institution, but over time it slowly secularized.  During the  Nazi era, the university was one of the first that had a majority of  Nazi supporters in the student council.  In 1961, the business college in  Nuremberg was merged with the university in  Erlangen, so that now the combined institution has a physical presence in the two cities.  An engineering school was inaugurated in 1966.  In 1972, the school of education (normal school) in  Nuremberg became part of the university.

Below is a short timeline of FAU from its inception to its present form:

In  February 2007, the senate of the university decided upon a restructuring into five faculties.  Since  October 2007, the FAU consists of:

The following faculties were part of the university (sorted in the order in which they were founded):

In 1962, after lengthy debate, the  Bavarian parliament decided to establish a  Faculty of  Engineering in  Erlangen.  Then, the  University of  Erlangen thus won out against the city of  Nuremberg, which, for decades, had been demanding the establishment of a college of engineering in  Nuremberg.  Since the expansive areas of building land required for this project were not available in the center of  Erlangen, the foundations for a new university campus were laid in the south east of the town in 1964.  The formal establishment of the  Faculty of  Engineering, then the seventh faculty at the  University, took place in 1966.  What was unique at the time was that the various engineering departments were subsumed, as a faculty, into the main university rather than constituting an independent university.

The  Faculty of  Engineering at FAU is a young educational and research institution.  Since its foundation in 1966, the  Faculty has gained an outstanding national and international reputation.  The  Faculty boasts expertise in a range of future-oriented areas of study and research across the five departments:

The  Faculty has close connections both with other natural sciences and with traditional subjects at the university.  The  Faculty of  Engineering currently concentrates on the following research fields:

The  Faculty of  Engineering has a firm commitment to the unity and freedom of teaching and research as an essential precondition for scientific progress.  The prioritizing of teaching and research is realized through the principle of teaching based on research, and the faculty plays a significant role in social and technological developments.  Faculty promotes knowledge transfer, mobility and exchange within research and teaching in cooperation with numerous universities worldwide.  Partnerships with businesses, research institutions, as well as international educational and cultural institutes are well established.

FAU claims leadership in a number of research topics.  The current eight such major research areas are:

The  Excellence  Initiative by the  German federal and state governments to promote science and research at  German universities aims to promote cutting-edge research and to strengthen the higher education and research in  Germany to improve its international competitiveness and to make top performers in academia and science visible.  As part of this initiative, FAU was awarded the contract for the  Erlangen  Graduate  School in  Advanced  Optical  Technologies (SAOT), which received 1.9 million euros of annual funding for the next five years.  The  Cluster of  Excellence ' Engineering of  Advanced  Materials and  Processes' (EAM) was also established at FAU as part of the initiative and has been approved in the second round. EAM is funded with 40 million euros.

See for more information:  Cluster of  Excellence  Engineering of  Advanced  Materials, FAU

The  Cluster of  Excellence ' Engineering of  Advanced  Materials –  Hierarchical  Structure  Formation for  Functional  Devices' (EAM) is the only interdisciplinary research collaboration of its type in  Germany to focus on the investigation of functional materials and their processing at all length scales.  The main research focus is on the fundamental and applied aspects of designing and creating novel high-performance materials.  It is part of the  Excellence  Initiative of the  German  Research  Foundation.

See for more information:  Advanced  Optical  Technologies, FAU

The  Erlangen  Graduate  School in  Advanced  Optical  Technologies (SAOT) was founded in 2006. SAOT’s scientific focus lies on optics and optical technology, two fields which are considered key technologies of the 21st century. SAOT offers an excellent interdisciplinary research environment, which is firmly grounded in a vast network of cooperations with internationally leading experts.  At the  Graduate  School, young scientists work at the interface of a variety of disciplines such as materials science, metrology, medicine and processing technology.  With their research, these young scientists make a considerable contribution to optical technologies being used to their full potential. SAOT is currently funded with seven million euros.

See for more information:  International  Audio  Laboratories  Erlangen

International  Audio  Laboratories  Erlangen (better known as  Audio Labs) is a joint institution of  Fraunhofer  Institute for  Integrated  Circuits and  University of  Erlangen-Nürnberg.  The  University provides six professorship positions to the research center and guarantees the scientific integration into the academic environment.  Fraunhofer IIS will provide a budget to fund  Audio Labs for an initial period of ten years.  Audio Labs will benefit from  Fraunhofer IIS’ extensive history and expertise in the field of audio and multimedia technologies.  This close cooperation of both partners allows for a unique organization with competencies ranging from basic research and teaching to technology implementation in innovative multimedia systems.

Audio Labs is unique worldwide in both its mission and international approach.  It is having a team of globally renowned scientists, those are working to shape the future of audio and multimedia technologies in the research areas such as audio coding, audio signal analysis and perceptual spatial audio signal processing.

Audio Labs is located on the premises of  Fraunhofer IIS in  Tennenlohe.  Being in the vicinity of the  Erlangen  University and the  Audio &  Multimedia division of  Fraunhofer IIS, this location enables close scientific collaboration in an ideal way.  In addition, it allows for use of the modern infrastructure of  Fraunhofer IIS including acoustics labs, recording studios or digital cinema labs.

See for more information:  Emerging  Fields  Initiative, FAU

Being one of the strongest and most reputable research university in  Germany, FAU boasting numerous outstanding academic approaches and perspectives.  Moreover, as a so-called full university, FAU brings all disciplines together under one roof.  Thus, FAU offers perfect conditions for the generation of innovative ideas, which often emerge at the interface between several disciplines and span different fields of research.  Therefore, FAU launched its  Emerging  Fields  Initiative (EFI) in 2010.  The EFI aims to promote outstanding, preferably interdisciplinary research projects at an early stage and in a flexible and non-bureaucratic way.  In doing so, the EFI aims to enable renowned FAU researchers to put visionary ideas into practice and thus to react more quickly and more effectively to upcoming challenges.

FAU is the first  German university to establish a branch campus in  Busan in the  Republic of  Korea. FAU has contacts with approximately 500 universities all over the world, including many of the world's top universities like the  University of  Cambridge,  Duke  University, UCL,  Imperial  College  London and many more.

Overall world academic ranking of the university published by  Academic  Ranking of  World  Universities, nature INDEX:

Performance in academic ranking of world universities by broad subject fields published by  Academic  Ranking of  World  Universities:

Performance in academic ranking of world universities by subject fields published by  Academic  Ranking of  World  Universities:

Performance in academic ranking of world universities by engineering subjects published by  Academic  Ranking of  World  Universities:

Performance in academic ranking among  German universities by broad subject fields published by  Academic  Ranking of  World  Universities: 

FAU is the first  German university to establish a branch campus in  Busan in the  Republic of  Korea.  In  November 2009, its campus project received approval from the  Korean  Ministry of  Education,  Science and  Technology.  The FAU  Busan  Branch  Campus offers a  Graduate  School with a master's degree program in  Chemical and  Bioengineering and a research center.

In 2014, the university announced its intention of working toward making the  Busan- Jinhae  Free  Economic  Zone an educational hub.  To this end, FAU  Busan works internationally with various companies and universities.

In 2010, the newly announced professor of physics and co-director of the  Max  Planck  Institute for the  Science of  Light,  Prof.  Vahid  Sandoghdar was awarded an  Alexander von  Humboldt  Professorship,  Germany’s highest-endowed international research award, endowed with €3.5 million.  In the year 2011, the second in a row, FAU communications engineer and researcher  Prof.  Dr.- Ing  Robert  Schober (born 1971) was awarded an  Alexander von  Humboldt  Professorship, entailed with €3.5 million, for an algorithm developed by him which is found in many modern phones today.  In 2013,  Prof.  Oskar  Painter received an  Alexander von  Humboldt  Professorship as well.  Prof.  Painter is another new co-director of the  Max  Planck  Institute for the  Science of  Light.

The  University of  Erlangen-Nürnberg was successful within the  German  Universities  Excellence  Initiative in competing for a "cluster of excellence" and a graduate school.  The  Cluster of  Excellence ' Engineering of  Advanced  Materials' (EAM)" focuses on interdisciplinary developing new materials, joining engineering and natural sciences.  The  Erlangen  Graduate  School in  Advanced  Optical  Technologies emphasizes a strong focus in optical and photonics technology in the natural sciences, in engineering and the medical sciences and aims for a concise doctoral education.  It is supplemented with a  Master's degree program in the same topics.

After an in-depth evaluation, both programs were extended for the third phase of the  German  Excellence  Initiative in 2012 until 2017.  They contribute significantly to the research funding of the  University, including five new research buildings, permanent new technical facilities and research and teaching staff.  They also aim to increase the international perception of the contributing fields of research in  Erlangen.The  University of  Flensburg ( German:  Universität  Flensburg) is a university in the city of  Flensburg,  Germany.  It was founded in 1994 and is the northernmost university in  Germany.  Although having full university status and the right to award  Ph Ds, the  University of  Flensburg offers mainly courses in education and other fields of social sciences.

Among the special features include the  German- Danish study courses in cooperation with the  University of  Southern  Denmark Sønderborg, which involves an association with the  Fachhochschule  Flensburg.

The university has 200 permanent employees and more than 400 visiting professors and lecturers.  In the winter semester 2006/2007, the  University received around 4,200 applications for places, but in the winter semester of the previous academic year the number was only 2,566.  At the top of the applications in the winter semester 2006/2007 was the B.A. course in  Teaching  Science, 1977 applicants, followed by the B.A. course in  International  Management with 547 candidates.  The B.A. course in  Science of the  Communication and  Teaching is discontinued. -  These are currently the only undergraduate programmes the university offers.

The  University of  Flensburg shares a campus with the  Fachhochschule.  The infrastructure includes the  Auditorium  Maximum (called  Audimax) lecture hall, the central library, a broad park area, student residences, a kindergarten, a sports and fitness center and the canteen ( Mensa), also several small cafeterias and a student pub. A water sports center and a campus chapel are currently (2009) under construction.  The main railway station is about one mile from the campus, the beach about 5 miles away.

There are five faculties, numbered  Department I to  Department V, each of these is divided into a number of institutes.The  Goethe  University  Frankfurt ( German:  Johann  Wolfgang  Goethe- Universität  Frankfurt am  Main) is a university in  Frankfurt,  Germany.

It was founded in 1914 as a citizens' university, which means that, while a state university of  Prussia, it was founded and funded by the wealthy and active liberal citizenry of  Frankfurt, a unique feature in  German university history.  The original name was  Universität  Frankfurt am  Main.  In 1932, the university's name was extended in honour of one of the most famous locals of  Frankfurt, the poet and writer  Johann  Wolfgang von  Goethe.  It is thus also referred to as the  Goethe  University in both formal and informal settings.  The university currently has around 46,000 students, distributed across four major campuses within the city.

18  Nobel  Prize winners have been affiliated with the university, including  Max von  Laue and  Max  Born.  The university is also affiliated with 11 winners of the prestigious  Gottfried  Wilhelm  Leibniz  Prize.  The university celebrated its 100th anniversary in 2014.  The first female president of the university,  Birgitta  Wolff, was sworn into office in 2015.

The  University of  Frankfurt has at times been considered liberal, or left-leaning, and has had a reputation for  Jewish and  Marxist (or even  Jewish- Marxist) scholarship.  During the  Nazi period, "almost one third of its academics and many of its students were dismissed for racial and/or political reasons—more than at any other  German university".  The university also played a major part in the  German student movement of 1968.

The university has historically best been known for its  Institute for  Social  Research (founded 1924), the institutional home of the  Frankfurt  School, a preeminent 20th century school of philosophy and social thought.  Some of the well-known scholars associated with this school include  Theodor  Adorno,  Max  Horkheimer, and Jürgen  Habermas, as well as  Herbert  Marcuse,  Erich  Fromm, and  Walter  Benjamin.  Other well-known scholars at the  University of  Frankfurt include the sociologist  Karl  Mannheim, the philosopher  Hans- Georg  Gadamer, the philosophers of religion  Franz  Rosenzweig,  Martin  Buber, and  Paul  Tillich, the psychologist  Max  Wertheimer, and the sociologist  Norbert  Elias.

The university also has been influential in the natural sciences and medicine, with  Nobel  Prize winners including  Max von  Laue and  Max  Born, and breakthroughs such as the  Stern– Gerlach experiment.

In recent years, the university has focused in particular on law, history, and economics, creating new institutes, such as the  Institute for  Law and  Finance (ILF) and the  Center for  Financial  Studies (CFS).  One of the university's ambitions is to become  Germany's leading university for finance and economics, given the school's proximity to one of  Europe's financial centers.  The  Goethe  Business  School offers a M.B.A. program, in cooperation with  Duke  University’s  Fuqua  School of  Business.  Goethe university has established an international award for research in financial economics, the  Deutsche  Bank  Prize in  Financial  Economics.

The university consists of 16 faculties.  Ordered by their sorting number, these are:：

In addition, there are several co-located research institutes of the  Max  Planck  Society:

The  University is located across four campuses in  Frankfurt am  Main:

Headquarters of the university, also housing  Social sciences,  Pedagogy,  Psychology,  Theology,  Philosophy,  History,  Philology,  Archaeology,  Law,  Economics and  Business  Administration,  Human geography

Other facilities include the university sports complex on  Ginnheimer  Landstraße in  Frankfurt- Bockenheim.

“ Campus  Westend” of the  University is dominated by the IG  Farben  Building by architect  Hans  Poelzig, an example of neoclassicist architecture.  The style for the IG  Farben  Building was originally chosen as "a symbol for the scientific and mercantile  German manpower, made out of iron and stone", as the IG  Farben director at the time of construction,  Baron von  Schnitzler, stated in his opening speech in  October 1930.

When the university took over the complex, the same style was also adopted for several new buildings.  On 30  May 2008, the  House of  Finance relocated to a new building designed by the architects  Kleihues+ Kleihues, following the style of the IG  Farben  Building.  The upper floors of the  House of  Finance building have several separate offices as well as shared office space for researchers and students.  The ground floor is open to the public and welcomes visitors with a spacious, naturally lit foyer that leads to lecture halls, seminar rooms, and the information center, a 24-hour reference library.  The ground floor also accommodates computer rooms and a café.  The floors, walls and ceiling of the foyer are decorated with a grid design that is continued throughout the entire building.  The flooring is inspired by  Raphael's mural,  The  School of  Athens.

The  Goethe  Business  School is a graduate business school at the university, established in 2004, part of the  House of  Finance at the  Westend  Campus. it is a non-profit foundation under private law held by the university.  The  Chairman of the  Board at GBS,  Rolf E.  Breuer, is former  Chairman of the  Supervisory  Board of  Deutsche  Bank.  Goethe  Business  School has a partnership in  Executive  Education with the  Indian  School of  Business (ISB) in  Hyderabad.

The  Deutsche  Bank  Prize in  Financial  Economics honors renowned researchers who have made influential contributions to the fields of finance and money and macroeconomics, and whose work has led to practical and policy-relevant results.  It is awarded biannually, since 2005, by the  Center for  Financial  Studies, in partnership with  Goethe  University  Frankfurt.  The award carries an endowment of €50,000, which is donated by the  Stiftungsfonds  Deutsche  Bank im  Stifterverband für die  Deutsche  Wissenschaft.The  University of  Freiburg (colloquially  German:  Uni  Freiburg), officially the  Albert  Ludwig  University of  Freiburg ( German:  Albert- Ludwigs- Universität  Freiburg), is a public research university located in  Freiburg im  Breisgau,  Baden-Württemberg,  Germany.

The university was founded in 1457 by the  Habsburg dynasty as the second university in  Austrian- Habsburg territory after the  University of  Vienna.  Today,  Freiburg is the fifth-oldest university in  Germany, with a long tradition of teaching the humanities, social sciences and natural sciences.  The university is made up of 11 faculties and attracts students from across  Germany as well as from over 120 other countries.  Foreign students constitute about 16% of total student numbers.

Named as one of elite universities of  Germany by academics, political representatives and the media, the  University of  Freiburg stands amongst  Europe's top research and teaching institutions.  With its long-standing reputation of excellence, the university looks both to the past, to maintain its historic academic and cultural heritage, and to the future, developing new methods and opportunities to meet the needs of a changing world.  The  University of  Freiburg has been home to some of the greatest minds of the  Western tradition, including such eminent figures as  Martin  Heidegger,  Hannah  Arendt,  Rudolf  Carnap,  David  Daube,  Johann  Eck,  Hans- Georg  Gadamer,  Friedrich  Hayek,  Edmund  Husserl,  Friedrich  Meinecke,  Max  Weber, and  Paul  Uhlenhuth.  In addition, 19  Nobel laureates are affiliated with the  University of  Freiburg and 15 academics have been honored with the highest  German research prize, the  Gottfried  Wilhelm  Leibniz  Prize, while working at the  University of  Freiburg.

Originally  Albrechts  University, the university started with four faculties (theology, philosophy, medicine, and law).  Its establishment belongs to the second wave of  German university foundings in the late  Middle  Ages, like the  Eberhard  Karls  University of Tübingen and the  University of  Basel.  Established by papal privilege (papal bull), the  University in  Freiburg actually was - like all or most universities in the  Middle  Ages - a corporation of the church body and therefore belonged to the  Roman  Catholic  Church and its hierarchy.  The bishop of  Basel consequently was its provost or chancellor ( Kanzler), the bishop of  Constance was its patron, and the real founder of the university was the sovereign,  Archduke  Albert VI of  Austria, being the brother of  Frederick III,  Emperor of the  Holy  Roman  Empire of the  German  Nation.  At its founding, the university was named after  Albert VI of  Austria.  He provided the university with land and endowments, as well as its own jurisdiction.  Also he declared  Albrechts  University as the "county university" ( German  Landesuniversität) for his territory until it was handed over to the  Austrian  House of  Habsburg in 1490.

The university soon attracted many students, such as the humanists  Geiler von  Kaysersberg,  Johann  Reuchlin, and  Jakob  Wimpfeling.  When  Ulrich  Zasius was teaching law (until 1536),  Freiburg became a centre of humanist jurisprudence.  From 1529 to 1535,  Erasmus of  Rotterdam lived and taught in  Freiburg.  From around 1559 on, the university was housed at the  Altes  Collegium (" Old  College"), today called the "new town-hall".  The importance of the university decreased during the time of the  Counter- Reformation.  To counter reformatory tendencies, the administration of two faculties was handed over to the  Roman  Catholic order of the  Jesuits in 1620.  From 1682 on, the  Jesuits built their college, as well as the  Jesuit church (nowadays the " University  Church" or  Universitätskirche).

In 1679,  Freiburg temporarily became  French territory, along with the southern parts of the upper  Rhine.  French  King  Louis XIV disliked the  Austrian system and gave the  Jesuits a free hand to operate the university.  On  November 6, 1684, a bilingual educational program was initiated.  From 1686 to 1698, the faculty fled to  Konstanz.

After  Freiburg was re-conquered and appointed as capital of  Further  Austria, a new time began for the university by the reforms of  Empress  Maria  Theresa of  Austria.  The requirements for admission were changed for all faculties in 1767 (before that time only  Roman  Catholics were allowed to study) and  Natural  Sciences were added as well as  Public  Administration.  Also in 1767, the university became a governmental institution despite the  Church's protests.  The  Church finally lost its predominant influence on the university when the  Jesuits were suppressed following a decree signed by  Pope  Clement XIV in 1773.  Consequently,  Johann  Georg  Jacobi (brother of the more famous philosopher  Friedrich  Heinrich  Jacobi) in 1784 was the first  Protestant professor teaching at the university in  Freiburg.

When  Freiburg became a part of the newly established  Grand  Duchy of  Baden (in  German " Großherzogtum  Baden") in 1805 (after  Napoleon occupied the area of the formerly  Further  Austria), a crisis began for the university in  Freiburg.  Indeed, there were considerations by  Karl  Friedrich,  Grand  Duke of  Baden and  Karl,  Grand  Duke of  Baden to close down the university in  Freiburg while both of them thought that the  Grand  Duchy could not afford to run two universities at the same time (the  Ruprecht  Karl  University of  Heidelberg had existed since 1386).

The university had enough endowments and earnings to survive until the beginning of the regency of  Ludwig I,  Grand  Duke of  Baden in 1818.  Finally in 1820, he saved the university with an annual contribution.  Since then, the university has been named  Albert  Ludwigs  University of  Freiburg ( Albert- Ludwigs- Universität  Freiburg) as an acknowledgement of gratitude by the university and the citizens of  Freiburg.

In the 1880s, the population of the student body and faculty started to grow quickly.  The scientific reputation of  Albert  Ludwigs  University attracted several researchers such as economist  Adolph  Wagner, historians  Georg von  Below and  Friedrich  Meinecke, and jurists  Karl von  Amira and  Paul  Lenel.

In 1900,  Freiburg became the first  German university to accept female students.  In the beginning of the 20th century, several new university buildings were built in the centre of  Freiburg, such as the new main building in 1911.  The university counted 3,000 students just before  World  War I.  After WWI, the philosophers  Edmund  Husserl and  Martin  Heidegger (since 1928) taught at  Albert  Ludwigs  University, as well as  Edith  Stein.  In the field of social sciences,  Walter  Eucken developed the idea of ordoliberalism, which subsequently is known as the " Freiburg  School".

During the  Third  Reich, the university went through the process of "political alignment" ( Gleichschaltung) like the rest of the  German universities.  Under the rector  Martin  Heidegger, all  Jewish faculty members were forced to leave the university in accordance with the " Law for the  Reintroduction of  Professional  Civil  Service".

After  World  War II, the university was reopened.  New buildings for natural sciences were erected in the  Institutsviertel ("institute quarter").  In the postwar years, the ideas of ordoliberalism, developed earlier by economists of the  Freiburg  School, such as  Walter  Eucken,  Franz Böhm,  Hans  Grossmann- Doerth, and  Leonhard  Miksch, drove the creation of the  German social market economy and its attendant  Wirtschaftswunder.  Nobel  Prize winner and former professor at the  University of  Freiburg,  Friedrich  Hayek, is also associated with this theory.  He directed the  Walter  Eucken  Institut, an economic think tank in  Freiburg cooperating with the university.  Arnold  Bergstraesser, considered a founding father or  German political science after  World  War II, was also a professor at the  University of  Freiburg.  His research group later formed what is now the  Arnold  Bergstraesser  Institute for sociocultural research at the university.

In the late 20th century, the university was part of a mass education campaign and expanded rapidly.  The student body grew to 10,000 by the 1960s, and doubled to 20,000 students by 1980.  In the 1970s, the faculty structure was changed to 14 departments, with the  Faculty of  Engineering becoming the 15th faculty in 1994.  In 2002, the number of faculties was reduced to 11.  The university opened a memorial dedicated to the victims of  National  Socialism among the students, staff, and faculty in 2003.

In 2006, the  University of  Freiburg joined the  League of  European  Research  Universities (LERU).  One year later, the  University was chosen as one of nine  German  Universities of  Excellence.  However, it did not receive the third line of funding in 2012.

The seal of the  University of  Freiburg depicts the educator  Christ seated on a gothic throne holding the gospel in his right hand with the temple curtain in the background.  Christ offers the teachings of the gospel to the  Jewish scholars who are crouched at his feet.  To the left and right of  Christ are structures resembling towers, most likely symbolic of the  Temple of  Jerusalem.  Located to the right of  Christ is the coat of arms of the  Austrian duchies, a banner with five eagles.  The shield on the opposite side symbolizes the coat of arms used by the  Habsburgs in conjunction with their territories.  The coat of arms of the city of  Freiburg is located at the bottom of the seal, displaying  St  George's  Cross.  The  Latin inscription on the seal reads  Sigillum universitatis studii friburgensis brisgaudie.  The seal was slightly modified in 1913, but has otherwise been in continuous use since it was adopted in 1462.

Having grown with the city since the 15th century, the university's buildings are deeply intertwined with the city.  The three large campuses are the university center next to the historical city center, the institutes quarter, and the engineering campus, but other buildings can be found scattered throughout  Freiburg.

The university complex in the historical center of  Freiburg contains such picturesque buildings as the  Jugendstil  Kollegiengebäude I, built in 1911 by  Hermann

Billing, and the gothic revival old university library.  The current  University  Library is also located in the historical center; it is a monumental building erected in the 1970s, and was to be renovated and redesigned beginning in  September, 2008.  It is one of the largest in  Germany and placed fourth in an  October, 2007,  German national ranking of university libraries.

The  University  Church, located across from  Kollegiengebäude II, was built in 1683 by the  Jesuit order.  The church and the  Jesuit college were handed over to the university after the  Jesuit order was suppressed in 1773.  The church was destroyed in the  November 27, 1944, bombing raid on  Freiburg, and reconstructed in 1956.

The “institute quarter” ( Institutsviertel) is home to the science faculties.  This campus was destroyed almost completely in the  Freiburg bombing raid in 1944.  After  World  War II, the reconstruction of the institutes began.  Today, the quarter houses the physics buildings, the tall main chemistry building, visible from afar, the famous  Institute for  Macromolecular  Chemistry at the  Hermann- Staudinger- Haus, various other science buildings, and the renowned preclinical institutes of the  Faculty of  Medicine.

The engineering campus is located next to the small  Freiburg airfield to the northwest of the city center, close to the  University  Medical  Center.  The campus is home to the  Institut für  Mikrosystemtechnik (  Department of  Microsystems  Engineering) and the  Department of  Computer  Science.  With the addition of the  Faculty of  Engineering, the  University of  Freiburg became the first classical university to combine traditional disciplines with microsystems technologies.

The  University  Medical  Center ( Universitätsklinikum  Freiburg) is one of  Germany's largest medical centers.  It boasts 1,600 beds and handles 55,000 in-patients a year, with another 357,000 being treated as out-patients.  It consists of 13 specialized clinics, five clinical institutes, and five centers (e.g.  Center for  Transplantation  Medicine).  The  University  Medical  Center achieved many technical advances, such as the first implantation of an artificial heart  Jarvik 2000 in 2002.

Most recently, the  University of  Freiburg purchased a large historic villa in the district of  Herdern, which will house part of the literature and linguistics, as well as history departments of the  Freiburg  Institute for  Advanced  Studies.

In 2015, the  University of  Freiburg opened its new library, housed in a modern building with a large glass and chrome facade.  The library features a section for quiet work and the permanent collection as well as space for group work, where collaboration is encouraged.  The building also includes a student cafe and an outdoor plaza with modern sculpture.

The university has a combined undergraduate and graduate student population of around 21,600.  About 16% of these students are foreigners, from about 120 different countries.  Admission largely depends on the faculty and program applied for and is strictly merit based, with the average score of final secondary-school examinations ( German  Abitur) or A-levels playing an important role.  Overall, in the fall of 2010, roughly 4,000 of around 26,000 applicants were admitted.

The  University of  Freiburg offers a large variety of undergraduate, graduate, and postdoctoral degree programs at its 11 faculties in 150 fields of study.

As common among  German universities, the academic year consists of summer and winter terms (semesters).  The winter term runs from  October 1 to  March 31, while the summer term runs from  April 1 to  September 30.  However, lectures and classes usually do not run for the full duration of these periods and allow for breaks in spring and fall.

As a  German university, tuition is free.  However, the  University of  Freiburg does charge a 210 EUR fee per year for all undergraduate and most graduate and doctoral programs, regardless of the EU or non-EU citizenship of students.

Numerous student clubs and organizations are active, among them a campus radio station, echo-fm, and a student television station, alma*, which is also available as a podcast.  Because of the nearby  French and  Swiss borders and the adjacent  Black  Forest, where the university owns a retreat on  Schauinsland  Mountain, fine opportunities exist for leisure and outdoor activities.  Students come from  Central and  Eastern  Europe for language studies, the majority demographic category is females in age range 18-25 (58%).

The university provides student housing in its various dormitories, run by the  Studentenwerk.  Additionally, further dormitories in  Freiburg are operated by other institutions, such as the  Catholic  Archdiocese or the  Evangelical  Church.  Due to the affordable rent and limited spots, rooms in the various dormitories are very popular.  Many students find private living arrangements, such as  Wohngemeinschaften (shared apartments).  However, the popularity of  Freiburg for prospective students can make finding an apartment or room quite time-consuming, especially before the start of the academic terms.

The university has its own career center, singled out as one of the best in  Germany by the  Stifterverband für die  Deutsche  Wissenschaft.

The university scored well with its submissions to the  German  Universities  Excellence  Initiative.  The university received funding in all three categories.  In the first category, funding for a new graduate school, the  Spemann  Graduate  School of  Biology and  Medicine, was granted; in the second, funding was granted for the excellence cluster  Centre for  Biological  Signalling  Studies (bioss); and in the third category,  Institutional  Strategy  Line of  Funding, open only to institutions with submissions qualified in the first two categories, the university is receiving funding for " Windows for  Research", which aims to promote a high level of interdisciplinarity between research fields and attract scientists from all over the world.  To that end, the university founded the  Freiburg  Institute for  Advanced  Studies (FRIAS).  Being selected for the third category ranks  Freiburg as one of nine "excellence universities" in  Germany.  The  University is to receive over EUR 130 million in additional funds over five years (from 2007) from this third category of funding.  In 2009, the  University was also successful in a nationwide competition for excellence in teaching, held by the  Stifterverband der deutschen  Wissenschaft.  The  University of  Freiburg, with its plans for future innovative teaching concepts, was selected as one of 10 winners from a field of over 100 higher education institutions.

In 2012, in the third round of the  Excellence  Initiative, the university was able to successfully extend funding for the  Spemann  Graduate  School of  Biology and  Medicine, as well as bioss, while also gaining funding for a new cluster called  Brain Links- Brain  Tools, an interdisciplinary neurotechnology project.  Citing insufficient evidence of integration of the FRIAS concept into the university's framework, the committee did not extend funding for the FRIAS and the institutional strategy line of funding, despite acknowledging the impressive research and advances achieved at FRIAS in the past years.

In university rankings published by  German magazines and periodicals ( Der  Spiegel,  Die  Zeit,  Focus, etc.) the  University of  Freiburg has established itself as one of  Germany's top universities.  The faculties for law, medicine, economics, history,  English studies,  German studies, biology, dentistry, and pharmacology achieve especially high scores.  In regards to the natural sciences, the  University of  Freiburg ranked sixth in  Europe and second in  Germany in a ranking of the  European  Commission of the universities according to their overall impact on scientific research.  The  Centre for  Higher  Education  Development, a  German higher education think tank, periodically publishes a comprehensive ranking of  European  Master's and  Ph D programs.  Freiburg garnered five spots in the top  Excellence  Group among seven subject fields examined.  In a recent survey by the  Nature  Publishing  Group, the  Nature  Publishing  Index - 2012  Global  Top 100, the  University of  Freiburg was the highest-ranked  German university and ranked 66th worldwide and 18th in  Europe. A recent study, " Benchmarking  China and  Germany:  An  Analysis of  Patent  Portfolios of  Universities and  Research  Organizations", was published in  May 2013 and sought to evaluate leading universities and research institutions in  Germany and  China in regards to their patent applications.  The study placed the  University of  Freiburg as the third-most innovative university in  Germany in terms of total patent applications.

Teams of the  University of  Freiburg frequently participate in academic competitions with considerable success.  The moot court team of the  Faculty of  Law has been the most successful team in the history of the competition  Willem C.  Vis  International  Commercial  Arbitration  Moot.  The humanoid robot team of the  Faculty of  Engineering regularly competes with distinction in international tournaments.  The  University of  Freiburg team has also repeatedly scored highly at the international  Genetically  Engineered  Machine]] undergraduate synthetic biology competition held at the  Massachusetts  Institute of  Technology.  The team was supported by numerous university institutions, among them the recently established bioss cluster of excellence.  The  University of  Freiburg also participates in the  National  Model  United  Nations held annually in  New  York  City.

The genetically engineered golden rice was developed by the  University of  Freiburg ( Peter  Beyer) and the ETH  Zurich ( Ingo  Potrykus) from 1992 to 2000.  It was considered a breakthrough in biotechnology at the time of publication and now can help to provide vitamin A to people lacking access to it in their diets.

When previous rector  Prof.  Dr. Jäger retired in 2008, law professor  Prof.  Dr.  Andreas  Voßkuhle was chosen as his successor.  However, shortly after the start of his term, the  Social  Democratic  Party of  Germany nominated  Voßkuhle as vice-president of the  Federal  Constitutional  Court of  Germany.  Voßkuhle accepted the nomination, was confirmed, and took his seat on the court in  May 2008.  In  July 2008, then vice-rector  Prof.  Dr.  Hans- Jochen  Schiewer was elected as successor to  Voßkuhle.  Schiewer has assumed the position of rector with the start of the winter term 2008/2009.

The  University of  Freiburg offers educational audio and video content on the i Tunes U software platform since  January 2008.

The  University of  Freiburg  Institute of  Physics is actively involved with research at the  Large  Hadron  Collider and has contributed significantly to the ATLAS experiment, resulting in the discovery of the  Higgs boson in 2012.

Today, about 430 professors, 3,695 academic employees, and 8,644 non-academic employees at the university are working for the  Albert  Ludwigs  University, making it  Freiburg's and the region's biggest employer.  The university attracts many academics from abroad and was awarded excellent positions in the 2005 and 2009  Humboldt  Ranking,.

The university is headed by a rector and divided into 11 faculties:

The  University of  Freiburg has a variety of graduate education and research opportunities.  In an evaluation of  European graduate programs,  Freiburg was ranked among the leading universities in several subject fields examined.

One of the notable graduate opportunities is the  Freiburg  Institute for  Advanced  Studies, a project funded by the  German  Excellence  Initiative.

Apart from the many graduate programs of its faculties,  Freiburg has set up additional specialized graduate schools and graduate research centers, coordinated by the newly founded  International  Graduate  Academy (IGA)  Freiburg.  The IGA coordinates five graduate schools: the  Spemann  Graduate  School of  Biology and  Medicine; the  European  Cultures and  Intercultural  Interweaving school; the  Theology and  Religious  Studies school; the  Hermann  Paul  School of  Language  Sciences, and the  Environment,  Society and  Global  Change graduate school of the  Faculty of  Forest and  Environmental  Sciences.

The IGA also coordinates 12  Graduate  Research  Centers ( Graduiertenkolleg):  Biochemistry of  Enzymes;  Friends,  Patrons,  Clients;  Formation and  Development of  Present- Day  Landscapes;  Mathematical  Logics and  Applications;  Mechanisms of  Neuronal  Signal  Transduction;  Catalysts and  Catalytic  Reactions for  Organic  Synthesis (in cooperation with the  University of  Basel);  Hadron  Collider  Physics;  Embedded  Microsystems;  From  Cells to  Organs:  Molecular  Mechanisms of  Organogenesis;  Signal  Systems in  Model  Organisms of  Plant  Origin;  Micro  Energy  Harvesting; and  Ph D program  Computational  Neuroscience at the  Bernstein  Center  Freiburg for  Computational  Neuroscience and  Neurotechnology].

Finally, the university operates three joint graduate schools with the  Max  Planck  Society: the  International  Max  Planck  Research  School for  Molecular and  Cellular  Biology; the  International  Max  Planck  Research  School on  Retaliation,  Mediation and  Punishment; and the  International  Max  Planck  Research  School for  Comparative  Criminal  Law.

Together with the EUCOR universities of  Basel and  Strasbourg and the  Karlsruhe  Institute of  Technology, the  University of  Freiburg also runs the shared graduate school École supérieure de biotechnologie  Strasbourg, enabling the students to obtain an international degree in biotechnology and a trilingual education, as classes are taught in  English,  German, and  French.

The  University of  Freiburg has offered  German language courses for foreign students since 1911.  The courses take place at the university's  Language  Teaching  Centre (' Sprachlehrinstitut) during the semester breaks and attract students from over 50 nations to  Freiburg.  The intensive language lessons are bolstered by a supplementary program with lectures and seminars on  German culture, politics, philosophy, and art, as well as excursions to the  Black  Forest, the  Alsace region in  France,  Basel ( Switzerland) or  Lake  Constance.  In addition to classes for all language levels, professional  German courses (e.g. business  German) are also offered.

University  College  Freiburg (UCF) is the  University’s central facility for promoting and administering international, interdisciplinary teaching activities.  It complements and supports the faculties’ work in this field, serves as a laboratory for innovative approaches to teaching and instructional design, and houses high-profile projects, notably the bachelor's program in  Liberal  Arts and  Sciences.  This four-year degree is the  University of  Freiburg’s first interdisciplinary,  English-taught undergraduate program and the first of its kind in  Germany.  It started in  October 2012. UCF works in close co-operation with the faculties, the  Rectorate’s departments for  Instructional  Development and  International  Relations, and with the  Language  Teaching  Center.

The city of  Freiburg is known for its environmentally friendly policies and focus on renewable energy and sustainability, attracting solar industry and research to the city.  This environmentally conscious attitude also extends to the  University of  Freiburg which has founded the work group " Nachhaltige  Universität  Freiburg" ( Sustainable  University of  Freiburg) and has drawn up environmental guidelines to be implemented in university practice.

The university has also founded the initiative  Solar- Uni  Freiburg in 2007, with the aim of further expanding its capabilities in sustainability and environmental research.  Solar panels were installed on the roofs of university buildings.  To bundle renewable energy research and teaching at the university, the  Center for  Renewable  Energy (ZEE,  Zentrum für  Erneuerbare  Energien), an interdisciplinary and cross-faculty facility, was founded.  Aside from research in the fields of solar energy, biomass, geothermal energy, energy efficiency and new energies, an international  Master of  Science degree in  Renewable  Energy  Management is being offered.

In addition to its own expertise, the  Center for  Renewable  Energy can draw upon the support of the renewable energy industrial sector in  Freiburg, as well as the university's cooperation with other research institutes in the area, such as the  Fraunhofer  Institute for  Solar  Energy  Systems ISE, the Öko- Institut -  Institute for  Applied  Ecology, or the  University of  Applied  Sciences  Offenburg.

The  University of  Freiburg cooperates closely with external research institutions located in  Freiburg, several of which are connected with chairs at the university.

The university is part of the regional EUCOR federation together with the  Karlsruhe  Institute of  Technology, the universities of  Basel,  Mulhouse, and, marked by particularly close ties,  Strasbourg.  Freiburg is further a member of the  League of  European  Research  Universities; the  European  University  Association; ASEA- Uninet; AC21; and the  International  Forum of  Public  Universities (IFPU).  The university also has exchange agreements and cooperative efforts with renowned universities on almost every continent.

The  University of  Freiburg initiated an  English language international master's program in social sciences, the  Global  Studies  Programme (GSP) in 2001.  The aim of the program is to enable students to study social sciences in different regions and cultures.  Combining various disciplines such as sociology, political sciences, anthropology and geography, students approach globalization with a unique perspective.  The program is conducted jointly by the  University of  Freiburg with the  University of  Cape  Town in  Cape  Town,  South  Africa, the  Jawaharlal  Nehru  University in  New  Delhi,  India, the  Latin  American  Social  Sciences  Institute in  Buenos  Aires,  Argentina, and the  Chulalongkorn  University in  Bangkok,  Thailand.  Students in the GSP master's program study on three different continents during the two-year degree program.  Since 2008, the GSP also offers a  Ph D program in  Global  Studies.  The  Global  Studies  Program has received many awards, among them the BMW  Group  Award for  Intercultural  Learning in 2004 as well as being listed a  Top  Ten  International master's degree  Course in  Germany by the  German  Academic  Exchange  Service (DAAD) in 2006.

The university also supports the  Institute for  Russian- German  Literature and  Cultural  Relations at the  Russian  State  University for the  Humanities as well as the  Vladimir  Admoni  School for  Doctoral  Studies at the  University of  Latvia.

Approximately 1/6th of its students are international students.  Many students at this university participate in the ERASMUS exchange program.

Perhaps best known amongst the alumni of the university are  Joseph  Goebbels,  Martin  Heidegger,  Edmund  Husserl,  Hannah  Arendt,  Paul  Ehrlich,  Hans  Adolf  Krebs,  Hans  Spemann,  Ethel  Dench  Puffer  Howes, and  Friedrich  August von  Hayek.

Among the affiliates are numerous  Nobel laureates and  Leibniz  Prize winners.

For a complete list of notable alumni and professors, see:  People associated with the  University of  Freiburg.The  University of Göttingen ( German:  Georg- August- Universität Göttingen, GAU), known informally as  Georgia  Augusta, is a public comprehensive research university in the town of Göttingen,  Germany.  Founded in 1734 by  George II,  King of  Great  Britain and  Elector of  Hanover, and starting classes in 1737, the university is the oldest in the state of  Lower  Saxony and the largest in student enrollment, which stands at around 26,000.  Home to many noted figures, it represents one of  Germany's historic and traditional institutions. Göttingen has been called "the city of science".

Göttingen is one of the most prestigious universities in  Germany, previously supported by the  German  Universities  Excellence  Initiative.  With membership in  Coimbra  Group and around 45  Nobel  Prize winners, the university enjoys great international renown.  The university maintains strong connections with major research institutes based in Göttingen as well, especially those of the  Max  Planck  Society for the  Advancement of  Science and the  Gottfried  Wilhelm  Leibniz  Scientific  Community.  With approximately 4.5 million volumes, the Göttingen  State and  University  Library ranks among the largest libraries in  Germany.

In 1734,  King  George II of  Great  Britain, who was also  Elector of  Hanover, gave his  Prime  Minister in  Hanover,  Gerlach  Adolph von Münchhausen, the order to establish a university in Göttingen to propagate the ideas of academic freedom and enlightenment at the times of the  European  Enlightenment.  Initially, the only new buildings constructed for the opening of the university were a riding hall and a fencing house, while courses were taught in the  Paulinerkirche and associated  Dominican monastery, or in the homes of professors.  No university auditorium was built until well into the 19th century.

Throughout the remainder of the 18th century the  University of Göttingen was in the top rank of  German universities, with its free spirit and atmosphere of scientific exploration and research.  Famous till our days is  Georg  Christoph  Lichtenberg, the first to hold a professorship (1769–99) explicitly dedicated to experimental physics in  Germany.  By 1812, Göttingen had become an internationally acknowledged modern university with a library of more than 250,000 volumes.

In the first years of the  University of Göttingen it became known for its faculty of law.  In the 18th century  Johann  Stephan Pütter, the most prestigious scholar of public law at that time, taught jus publicum here for half a century.  The subject had attracted students such as  Klemens  Wenzel  Lothar von  Metternich, later diplomat and  Prime  Minister of  Austria, and  Wilhelm von  Humboldt, who later established the  University of  Berlin.  In 1809  Arthur  Schopenhauer, the  German philosopher best known for his work  The  World as  Will and  Representation, became a student at the university, where he studied metaphysics and psychology under  Gottlob  Ernst  Schulze, who advised him to concentrate on  Plato and  Kant.

By the university's centenary in 1837, it was known as the "university of law", as the students enrolled by the faculty of law often made up more than half of the university's students. Göttingen became a  Mecca for the study of public law in  Germany.  Heinrich  Heine, the famous  German poet, studied law and was awarded the degree of  Dr.iur..

However, political disturbances, in which both professors and students were implicated, lowered the attendance to 860 in 1834.  The expulsion in 1837 of the seven professors –  Die Göttinger  Sieben – the  Germanist,  Wilhelm  Eduard  Albrecht (1800–1876); the historian  Friedrich  Christoph  Dahlmann (1785–1860); the orientalist  Georg  Heinrich  August  Ewald (1803–1875); the historian  Georg  Gottfried  Gervinus (1805–1875); the physicist  Wilhelm  Eduard  Weber (1804–1891); and the philologists, the brothers  Jakob (1785–1863) and  Wilhelm  Grimm (1786–1859), for protesting against the revocation by  King  Ernest  Augustus I of  Hanover of the liberal constitution of 1833, further reduced the prosperity of the university.  Prior to this, the  Brothers  Grimm had taught here and compiled the first  German  Dictionary.

In the 19th century,  Gustav von  Hugo, the forerunner[clarification needed] of the historical school of law, and  Rudolf von  Jhering, a jurist who created the theory of "culpa in contraendo" and wrote  Battle for  Right, taught here and maintained the reputation of the faculty of law.  Otto von  Bismarck, the main creator and the first  Chancellor of the second  German  Empire, had also studied law in Göttingen in 1833: he lived in a tiny house on the " Wall", now known as " Bismarck  Cottage".  According to oral tradition, he lived there because his rowdiness had caused him to be banned from living within the city walls.

Göttingen also had a focus on natural science, especially mathematics.  Carl  Friedrich  Gauss taught here in the 19th century.  Bernhard  Riemann,  Peter  Gustav  Lejeune  Dirichlet and a number of significant mathematicians made their contributions to mathematics here.  By 1900,  David  Hilbert and  Felix  Klein had attracted mathematicians from around the world to Göttingen, which made Göttingen a world mecca of mathematics at the beginning of the 20th century.

During this period, the  University of Göttingen achieved its academic peak.

In 1903, its teaching staff numbered 121 and its students 1529.  Ludwig  Prandtl joined the university in 1904, and developed it into a leader in fluid mechanics and in aerodynamics over the next two decades.  In 1925,  Prandtl was appointed as the director of the  Kaiser  Wilhelm  Institute for  Fluid  Mechanics.  He introduced the concept of boundary layer and founded mathematical aerodynamics by calculating air flow in the down wind direction.  Many of  Prandtl's students went on to make fundamental contributions to aerodynamics.

From 1921 to 1933, the physics theory group was led by  Max  Born, who, during this time, became one of the three discoverers of the non-relativistic theory of quantum mechanics.  He may also have been the first to propose its probabilistic relationship with classical physics.  It was one of the main centers of the development of modern physics.

To date, 47  Nobel  Prize laureates have studied, taught or made contributions here.  Most of these prizes were given in the first half of the 20th century, which was called the "Göttingen  Nobel prize wonder".

The  German inventor of the jet engine,  Pabst von  Ohain, also studied aerodynamics in  Goettingen under  Ludwig  Prandtl.

Social studies and the study of humanities continued to flourish.  Edmund  Husserl, the philosopher and known as the father of phenomenology, taught here.  Max  Weber, the sociologist studied here for one term.

During this time, the  German language became an international academic language. A number of dissertations in the UK and the US had  German titles.  One might be considered having had a complete academic training only when one had studied in  Germany.  Thus, many  American students were proud of having studied in  Germany, and the  University of Göttingen had profound impacts on the US. A number of  American politicians, lawyers, historians and writers received their education from both  Harvard and Göttingen.  For example,  Edward  Everett, once  Secretary of  State and  President of  Harvard  University, stayed in Göttingen for two years of study.  George  Ticknor spent two years studying classics in Göttingen.  John  Lothrop  Motley, a diplomat and historian, even had personal friendship with  Otto von  Bismark during his two-year-long study in Göttingen.  George  Bancroft, a politician and historian, even received his  Ph D from the  University of Göttingen in 1820.

In the 1930s, the university became a focal point for the  Nazi crackdown on " Jewish physics", as represented by the work of  Albert  Einstein.  In what was later called the "great purge" of 1933, academics including  Max  Born,  Victor  Goldschmidt,  James  Franck,  Eugene  Wigner,  Leó  Szilárd,  Edward  Teller,  Emmy  Noether, and  Richard  Courant were expelled or fled.  Most of them fled  Nazi  Germany for places like the  United  States,  Canada, and the  United  Kingdom.

After  World  War II, the  University of Göttingen was the first university in the western  Zones to be re-opened under  British control in 1945. Jürgen  Habermas, a  German philosopher and sociologist, pursued his study here in Göttingen.  Later,  Richard von  Weizsäcker, the former  President of  Germany, earned his  Dr. Jur. here.  Gerhard  Schröder, the former  Chancellor of  Germany, also graduated from the school of law here in Göttingen, and he became a lawyer thereafter.

Today the university consists of 13 faculties and around 26,000 students are enrolled.  More than 400 professors and 4,000 academic staff work at the university, assisted by a technical and administrative staff of over 7,000.  The post-war expansion of the university led to the establishment of a new, modern 'university quarter' in the north of the town.  The architecture of the old university can still be seen in the  Auditorium  Maximum (1826/1865) and the  Great  Hall (1835/1837) at  Wilhelmsplatz.

The university itself encompasses 13 faculties and a total of 47 additional centers and institutes (including associated centers and institutes but excluding institutes that operate within the faculties themselves).

The  University of Göttingen consistently ranks among the best universities not only in  Germany but also around the world.  Within the framework of the 2006–07  German  Universities  Excellence  Initiative, the  University of Göttingen won funding for its future concept " Tradition,  Innovation,  Autonomy," its graduate school " Neurosciences and  Molecular  Biosciences," and its research cluster " Microscopy at the  Nanometer  Range."  In the 2012  Excellence  Initiative, Göttingen succeeded in obtaining funds for its graduate school " Neurosciences and  Molecular  Biosciences" and its research cluster " Microscopy at the  Nanometer  Range" but failed in its bid for future concept financing.

The  University of Göttingen is associated with 47  Nobel laureates.  The most recent  Nobel laureates associated with the university are  Stefan  Hell ( Nobel  Prize in  Chemistry, 2014) and  Thomas C. Südhof ( Nobel  Prize in  Physiology or  Medicine, 2013).  Stefan  Hell has been a lecturer (in  Privatdozent capacity) at the  University of Göttingen since 2004 and the director of the  Max  Planck  Institute for  Biophysical  Chemistry in the Göttingen  Research  Campus since 2002, while  Thomas Südhof, currently a professor at  Stanford  University, worked on his doctoral thesis at the  Max  Planck  Institute for  Biophysical  Chemistry in the lab of  British biochemist  Victor P.  Whittaker.

The university is organizationally and personally interlinked with the following independent and semi-independent institutions.  There are four  Max  Planck  Society for the  Promotion of  Science  Institutes situated in Göttingen:

Besides, the  Max  Planck  Institute for  Solar  System  Research, formerly  Max  Planck  Institute for  Aeronomy is closely linked and has cooperation with the university.

Closely linked with the university is the Göttingen  State and  University  Library ( German:  Niedersächsische  Staats- und  Universitätsbibliothek Göttingen, or SUB Göttingen;  English short form:  Goettingen SUB).  With around 4.5 million volumes and precious manuscripts, the library is designed for Göttingen  University as well as the central library for the  German  State of  Lower  Saxony (with its central catalogue) and for the Göttingen  Academy of  Sciences, originally founded as the ' Royal  Society for  Sciences'.

As  Germany is a member of the  European  Union, university students have the opportunity to participate in the  Erasmus  Programme.  The university also has exchange programs and partnerships with reputable universities outside  Europe such as  University of  Technology,  Sydney in  Australia,  Tsinghua  University,  Peking  University and  Fudan  University in  China,  Tokyo  University in  Japan and the  University of  California,  Berkeley in the  United  States.

Apart from the academics already mentioned, notable people that have studied and taught at  Georg- August  University include the  American banker J. P.  Morgan, the seismologist  Beno  Gutenberg, the endocrinologist  Hakaru  Hashimoto, who studied there before  World  War I, and several notable  Nobel laureates like  Max  Planck and  Werner  Heisenberg.

The most famous tradition of the university is that  Ph D students who have just passed their  Rigorosum (oral doctoral examination) or dissertation defense sit in a wagon – decorated with flowers and balloons and accompanied by relatives and friends, drive around the inner city and arrive at the  Marktplatz – the central square where the old town hall and the Gänseliesel statue are located.  The "newly born doctor" shall climb up to the statue of Gänseliesel (a poor princess in an old fairy tale who was compelled to keep geese by a wicked woman and later regained her identity), kiss the Gänseliesel and give bouquets to her.

There is an old saying about life in Göttingen, still inscribed in  Latin nowadays on the wall of the entrance to the  Ratskeller (the restaurant located in the basement of the old town hall):  Extra  Gottingam non est vita, si est vita, non est ita ( There is no life outside Göttingen.  Even if it is life, it is no life like here).

" Ancient university towns are wonderfully alike. Göttingen is like  Cambridge in  England or  Yale in  America: very provincial, not on the way to anywhere – no one comes to these backwaters except for the company of professors.  And the professors are sure that this is the centre of the world.  There is an inscription in the  Ratskeller there which reads ' Extra  Gottingam non est vita', ' Outside Göttingen there is no life'.  This epigram, or should I call it epitaph, is not taken as seriously by the undergraduates as by the professors."( Bronowski, 1973,  The  Ascent of  Man, p. 360)

The university is spread out in several locations around the city:  The central university complex with the main library and  Mensa (student refectory/dining hall) is located right next to the inner city and comprises the faculties for  Theology,  Social sciences,  Law,  Economics/ Business  Administration and  Linguistics.  The departments of  Ancient  History,  Classics, various languages,  Psychology and  Philosophy are nearby.  Located to the south of the city is the  Faculty of  Mathematics and  Computer  Science with its main building, the " Mathematisches  Institut", on the same street as the  German  Aerospace  Center and the  Max  Planck  Institute for  Dynamics and  Self- Organisation.  Elsewhere in the city are the departments of  Anthropology and  Educational  Sciences as well as the  Medical  Faculty with its associated hospitals.

Just north of the city a new scientific center has been built in which most of the natural sciences ( Chemistry,  Biology,  Plant  Pathology,  Agronomy,  Forestry,  Geology,  Physics,  Computer  Science) are now located, including the GZMB.  Other institutes are set around the inner city.

The university offers eight snack shops and six  Mensas serving lunch at low prices for the students.  One  Mensa also provides dinner for students.The  University of  Giessen, officially called  Justus  Liebig  University  Giessen ( German:  Justus- Liebig- Universität  Gießen), is a large public research university in  Giessen,  Hesse,  Germany.  It is named after its most famous faculty member,  Justus von  Liebig, the founder of modern agricultural chemistry and inventor of artificial fertiliser.  It covers the areas of arts/humanities, business, dentistry, economics, law, medicine, science, social sciences, and veterinary medicine.  Its university hospital, which has two sites,  Gießen and  Marburg (the latter of which is the teaching hospital of the  University of  Marburg), is the only private university hospital in  Germany.

The  University of  Giessen is among the oldest institutions of higher educations in the  German-speaking world.  It was founded in 1607 as a  Lutheran university in the city of  Giessen in  Hesse- Darmstadt because the all- Hessian  Landesuniversität (the nearby  University of  Marburg ( Philipps- Universität  Marburg) in  Marburg,  Hesse- Kassel (or  Hesse- Cassel)) had become  Reformed (that is,  Calvinist).  Louis V,  Landgrave of  Hesse- Darmstadt, whence the university got its original name " Ludoviciana," founded his own institution of higher education in  Giessen, which as a  Lutheran institution had the primary function of ensuring the education of pastors and civil servants.  Endowed with a charter issued by  Rudolf II,  Holy  Roman  Emperor, on 19  May 1607, the university was allowed to proceed with instruction in  October 1607.  During the  Thirty  Years'  War, when  Hesse- Darmstadt was able to take the area around  Marburg for itself, the university in  Giessen ceased instruction and was moved back to its more long-standing location in  Marburg (1624/25).  The  Peace of  Westphalia led to the restoration of the old location and in 1650 to the relocation of the university to  Giessen.

In the 17th and 18th centuries the  Ludoviciana was a typical small state university that then had the four common faculties (theology, law, medicine, and philosophy).  The instruction was reasonable, with about 20 to 25 professors teaching several hundred students, the latter of which were mostly " Landeskinder."  In the 18th century came gradual modernization of the curricula and reforms in the instruction, which were definitively influenced by the local lordly court in  Darmstadt.  The example for the reforms were both of the "model universities of the  Enlightenment," the  University of  Halle, founded in 1694, and more still  Georgia  Augusta, founded in Göttingen in 1734/37.  Indeed, all attempts at reform were from the start limited by the limited finances of  Hesse- Darmstadt.

The noteworthy creation of a  Faculty of  Economics (1777–1785) was ultimately was born out of this financial hardship.  In the  Faculty of  Economics, new practical subjects were brought together (veterinary medicine, forestry, and cameral sciences), which the university was supposed to make "expedient" and "profitable." ( One of the earliest courses of study in forestry in  Europe.)  After finishing studies in this  Faculty, a number of these youths were able to gain recognition in the  Faculties of  Medicine and  Philosophy.  They established the unusually diverse course offerings that continue to exist to the modern day at the  University of  Giessen.

The  University of  Giessen weathered the transition from the 18th to the 19th century unscathed and was still the only university of an enlarged territory, the  Grand  Duchy of  Hesse.  Alongside  Jena,  Giessen was the prototype for the politicized  Vormärz university, and the " Gießener  Schwarzen" with  Karl  Follen and  Georg Büchner, marked the revolutionary spirit of this decade.  With the appointment of the 21-year-old  Justus von  Liebig in 1824 through the  Grand  Duchy — against the will of the university on the recommendation of  Alexander von  Humboldt — a new era in the natural sciences began, not only in  Giessen.  Young, promising scientists created a new impulse in their respective areas of knowledge; among these scientists were the antiquarian  Friedrich  Gottlieb  Welcker, the lawyer  Rudolf von  Jhering, the theologian  Adolf von  Harnack, and the physicist  Wilhelm  Conrad Röntgen.

At the turn of the 20th century, the  Ludoviciana began to expand into a modern university.  During this period, new clinics in human and veterinary medicine were established, and the university library received its first proper building.  With the creation of the university's central building (inaugurated 1880) and the adjacent newly constructed facilities for chemistry and physics a new cultural center was established on what was then the border of the city.  The decisive backer of this project was the last  Grand  Duke  Ernst  Ludwig, to whom the university bestowed out of thankfulness the honorary title of " Rector  Magnificentissimus."  In 1902 the student body surpassed one thousand.  For the first time included in the student body were women, who since 1900 were admitted as guest students and starting in 1908 were admitted for regular study.

After the different  Hessian states were (re-)united in 1929, both universities became public universities of that  German state.  The  University of  Giessen now has almost 23,000 students and 8,500 employees, which together with the  University of  Applied  Sciences  Giessen- Friedberg, makes  Giessen the most student-dominated  German city.

Following is the growth in the student population of the  University of  Giessen

In the 2014/2015 winter semester the student population exceeded the mark of more than a total of 28,000 students and 7,000 first-semester students for the first time.

Although the university has no defined campus, buildings and facilities are grouped together according to their subject areas and situated in various locations around  Giessen.  Philosophikum II, for example is an area on the outskirts of the city bordering the city forest. A number of faculty buildings and lecture theaters are located there, including  Audimax, a building containing several lecture halls whose atrium is often the venue for concerts and disco nights, locally known as " Uni- Partys."

Next to  Liebig, famous professors at the university included the physician  Georg  Haas (who carried out the world's first human hemodialysis in  Giessen in 1924), the theologian  Adolf von  Harnack, the lawyer  Rudolf von  Jhering, the economist and statistician  Etienne  Laspeyres, the physicist  Wilhelm  Conrad Röntgen, the mathematicians  Moritz  Pasch and  Alfred  Clebsch, the gestalt psychologist  Kurt  Koffka, the philologist and archaeologist  Friedrich  Gottlieb  Welcker, and the orientalist  Eberhard  Schrader.

Recent alumni in the area of politics include current  German  Minister for  Foreign  Affairs and former  Vice  Chancellor  Frank- Walter  Steinmeier and  Brigitte  Zypries, current  Parliamentary  State  Secretary at the  Federal  Ministry for  Economic  Affairs and  Energy and former  Federal  Minister of  Justice of  Germany from 2002 to 2009.

All of the most famous alumni of the university were born in  Hesse- Darmstadt.  They include the  German romantic dramatist and revolutionary  Georg Büchner, the literary and political historian  Georg  Gottfried  Gervinus and the botanist  Johann  Jacob  Dillenius.  Also  Ernest  Rutherford, the  Rutherford's atomic model creator, studied in  Giessen.  Alumnus  William  Schlich founded  Oxford  University's forestry program.  Carl A.  Schenck, who received his  Ph D in  Forestry from  Giessen, founded  Biltmore  Forest  School, the first such school in the  United  States.

The  Holocaust  Literature  Research  Unit of the university plans to publish  My  Opposition,  Friedrich  Kellner's  World  War II diary.  Friedrich  Kellner was chief justice inspector in  Laubach from 1933 to 1950 and also district auditor for the region of  Giessen.The  University of  Gothenburg ( Swedish: Göteborgs universitet) is a university in  Sweden's second largest city,  Gothenburg.

The  University is the third-oldest of the current  Swedish universities, and with 37 000 students and 6000 staff members, it is also among the largest universities in the  Nordic countries.

With its eight faculties and 38 departments, the  University of  Gothenburg is one of the most wide-ranging and versatile universities in  Sweden.  Its eight faculties offer training in the  Creative  Arts,  Social  Sciences,  Natural  Sciences,  Humanities,  Education,  Information  Technology,  Business,  Economics and  Law, and  Health  Sciences.

The  University of  Gothenburg has the highest number of applicants per study place in many of its subjects and courses, making it one of the most popular universities in  Sweden.

Gothenburg  University places well in global rankings and is usually positioned among the world's best 200 institutions:

The  University of  Gothenburg was founded as Göteborgs högskola ( Gothenburg  University  College) in 1891.  In 1907 it was granted the same status as  Uppsala  University and  Lund  University by the  Swedish government, thus creating  Sweden's third university.

Over the course of time, it has merged with a number of previously independent higher education institutions in the city and has continuously expanded its study profile.  It was granted the rights of a full university by the  Swedish  Government in 1954, following the merger of the Göteborgs högskola ( Gothenburg  College) with the  Medicinhögskolan i Göteborg ( Gothenburg  Medical  School).

In 1971, the originally separate  Gothenburg  School of  Economics and  Commercial  Law became part of the  University of  Gothenburg.

Sahlgrenska  University  Hospital is associated with the university as a teaching hospital.

In the 1990s the  School of  Economics and the  Academy of  Music,  Drama and  Opera have moved to new buildings in the city centre. A new campus for the  Faculty of  Education (teacher training) was opened in central  Gothenburg in 2006.

The  University of  Gothenburg is a pronounced city university, that is most of its facilities are within the city centre of  Gothenburg.  The main building as well as most faculties are located in the central part of  Gothenburg.

Together with  Uppsala,  Lund, and  Stockholm universities, it is one of four large international research universities in  Sweden.

The  University of  Gothenburg is one of  Sweden’s largest universities.  It is a comprehensive university, organised into eight faculties and 38 departments.  The  University is a public authority as well as a confederation of  Faculty  Boards.  Each faculty/school has significant autonomy based on its attributed powers, and a distinct identity within the  University.

The  University  Board is the  University’s highest decision-making body.  The board consists of 15 members and has "supervision over all the  University’s affairs, and is responsible that its duties are fulfilled".  The  Swedish  Government appoints seven of the members externally, based on their having experience in activities that have significance for the university’s teaching and research functions.  In addition, the  Vice- Chancellor, three faculty members and three students, as well as union representatives are included as ordinary members.

The day-to-day management is headed by the  Vice- Chancellor, who is responsible for implementing the decisions of the board.  She is supported by the central administration.

The university is organised into eight academic faculties.  Collaboration across faculty and subject boundaries is emphasised in the university's research and education strategies.  All faculties takes advantage of this possibility and are active participants in a multitude of cross-disciplinary research and education activities within the framework of the university.  It should also be noted that the university closely cooperates with  Chalmers  University of  Technology, a fact that further increases the total scope of the academic environment in  Gothenburg.

The  University of  Gothenburg has awarded numerous honorary doctorates to public figures and excellent academics, including:The  University of  Greifswald ( [ˈɡʁaɪfsvalt];  German:  Ernst- Moritz- Arndt- Universität  Greifswald) is a public research university located in  Greifswald,  Germany, in the state of  Mecklenburg- Vorpommern.

Founded in 1456 (teaching existed since 1436), it is one of the oldest universities in  Europe, with generations of notable alumni and staff having studied or worked in  Greifswald.  As the fourth-oldest university in present  Germany, it was temporarily also the oldest university of the  Kingdoms of  Sweden (1648–1815) and  Prussia (1815–1945), respectively.  Approximately two thirds of the 12,000 students are from outside the state.  Due to the small-town atmosphere, the pronounced architectural presence of the alma mater across town, and the young, academic flair in the streets,  Greifswald is often described as a "university with a town built around it" rather than a town with a university.

The  University of  Greifswald was founded on 17  October 1456 with the approval of the  Holy  Roman  Empire and the  Pope.  This was possible due to the great commitment of  Greifswald's lord mayor,  Heinrich  Rubenow, who was also to become the university's first rector, with the support of  Duke  Wartislaw IX of  Pomerania and  Bishop  Henning  Iven of the local  St  Nicolas'  Cathedral.  The founding took place in the local cathedral, which was later remodeled by  Caspar  David  Friedrich and his brother and can still be visited today.  The founding of the university was made possible by a decree that restricted teaching activity at the  University of  Rostock (founded 1419).  Several professors left  Rostock for  Greifswald to continue their work there, where  Heinrich  Rubenow took the chance of establishing his own university.  Originally, the university consisted of the four traditional divisions:  Theology,  Philosophy,  Medicine and  Law.

In  Germany, there are only three older universities by count of the years of existence: the  University of  Heidelberg (established 1386), the  University of  Leipzig (1409), and the  University of  Rostock (1419).

International co-operation with other institutions of higher education in northern  Europe existed already in the earliest years, sparked and accelerated by the transnational trading network  Hanse.  From 1456 until 1526, 476  Scandinavians were enrolled at  Greifswald  University and 22 faculty members as well as six rectors came from  Scandinavia.  This was a relatively high percentage compared to the total number of students at the time.  Sources suggest a relatively segregated life of  Swedish students in the primarily  German university though.

The early sixteenth century saw significant co-operation of the university, the  Lutheran church, the city and the  Duchy of  Pomerania.  Professors of theology simultaneously served as pastors in the three cathedrals.  Professors of medicine usually served as personal physicians of the duke.  Professors of law where also working at the local courts while professors of the faculty of philosophy usually taught the sons and daughters of the ducal family.  The landed nobility also funded university-related purposes such as scholarships and student bursaries.

The  Reformation was introduced at the university in 1539.  Johannes  Bugenhagen, an alumnus of the university, was an important figure during the  German and  Scandinavian reformation as well as a good friend of  Martin  Luther.  After the secularisation of the monastery at  Eldena near  Greifswald,  Duke  Philipp I of  Pomerania gave all revenue created by the now secularised  Amt  Eldena to the university.  His successor,  Duke  Ernst  Ludwig, began the construction of a college building, which could only be completed after his death.  Duke  Philipp  Julius presented the university a gown that was used by the rector on ceremonial occasions up until very recently.

In 1604, the  Greifswald  University  Library became the first centralised university library in  Germany.  The university signed a contract with a book printer from  Wittenberg,  Germany, for the amount of 2,000  Gulden.  This contract lasted nearly a century due to the disruption caused by the  Thirty  Years'  War (1618–1648).  Hence, the university now owns prestigious early prints of authors and printers such as  Johannes  Gutenberg or  Thomas  Thorild.  The phrase cuius regio, eius religio as applied to the outcome of the  Protestant  Reformation is attributed to the early seventeenth century jurist  Joachim  Stephani (1544–1623) of the  University of  Greifswald.

The  Duke of  Pomerania was in financial troubles and had not paid the professors.  As a solution, he gave the  Amt  Eldena to the university - a total of 140 square kilometres of land.

After the  Peace of  Westphalia in 1648 the western part of  Pomerania, including  Greifswald and its university, became a fief held by  Sweden. 1806-1815 it was formally a part of  Sweden.  Without entirely losing its character as a  German university, it was heavily influenced by  Swedish educational policies until 1815.  Especially during the second half of the eighteenth century  Greifswald was a cultural and scientific bridge between  Germany and  Sweden.  More than 1,500  Swedes studied at  Greifswald  University.

The first university course in the  English language in  Germany was held in  Greifswald in the year 1777.

The main administrative building - still in use today - was built during the "good old  Swedish years" by  Andreas  Mayer, a mathematician by profession, in the style of  North  German  Baroque.

When  Swedish  Pomerania became part of the  Kingdom of  Prussia in 1815, the  University of  Greifswald became the oldest university on  Prussian territory.  Prussia recognised the potential of science and universities, thus extensive building activity and growing financial support enabled the  University of  Greifswald to grow further both in size and reputation.

In 1856, on the occasion of the 400th anniversary of the university's founding, a monument was unveiled in the presence of  King  Frederick  William IV of  Prussia.  The monument is still at its place, and was carefully restored for the 550th anniversary 2006.

The  Faculty of  Law became  Faculty of  Law and  Economics when an economic department was introduced in 1905.  In 1912,  Otto  Jaekel, a professor of paleontology in  Greifswald, founded the  German  Paleontological  Society.  The  Department of  Modern  Languages was established in 1853.  To commemorate the 400th anniversary of the university 1456—1856, the " Rubenow- Denkmal" ( Rubenow  Memorial) was built in front of the main building, which is still there at its historic place.  The  Department of  History was founded 1863 as the first in  Prussia and the fourth in all of  Germany.  The painter  Caspar  David  Friedrich was born in  Greifswald and received his first painting instruction by one of the university's members.  Today the  Department of  Fine  Art and  Art  History is named after him.  He later painted several oil paintings with motifs from the region, including the one on the left.

The spectrum of academic research and teaching was further expanded during the  Weimar  Republic.  The  Nordisches  Institut ( Scandinavian and  Finno- Ugric studies) and several other research institutes, e.g. for biological research,  Christian archeology, and  Palestinian studies, were founded.

In 1933 the university was named after  Ernst  Moritz  Arndt, who was a student of theology in 1791 and later taught history at  Greifswald.  Here, he published his works " Versuch einer  Geschichte der  Leibeigenschaft in  Pommern und Rügen", " Germanien und  Europa" as well as the first part of " Geist der  Zeit".  The name was suggested by SA and  Nazi  Party member professor  Walther  Glawe.  The university was gleichschalted and reformed according to military needs of the  Nazis.

All academic activities came to a halt towards the end of the  Second  World  War, and the university was re-opened on 15  February 1946.  The name of  Ernst  Moritz  Arndt was initially removed but restored in 1954.  Several organisational changes were made during the time of the GDR, most of which were revoked in the 1990s after the  German  Reunification.

Freedom of science as well as the autonomy and self-administration of the university were re-established.  The  Faculty of  Law and  Economics was re-opened from 1991 to 1993.  Extensive renovation took place since 1990.  The dinosaur  Emausaurus was named after the acronym of the university ( Erndt- Moritz- Arndt- Universität  Greifswald) in 1990.

Beginning in 1999, the  University of  Greifswald was among the first in  Germany to welcome and introduce the international  Bachelor/ Master degree system as proposed by the  Bologna declaration.  The new system has replaced all former 4.5 year " Magister" degrees in the arts and humanities and is set to replace the 4.5 year " Diplom" formerly awarded in the sciences and in business too.

In 2006, the university celebrated its 550th anniversary with a large variety of events.  The central ceremony – involving the re-opening of the university's renovated administrative building by  President  Horst Köhler of  Germany,  Queen  Silvia of  Sweden, and  Minister  President  Harald  Ringstorff of  Mecklenburg- Vorpommern – took place on 17  October 2006.

Since the end of the GDR the  University of  Greifswald has undergone major construction efforts.  Between 1991 and 2007, more than 417 million  Euros were spent on the careful renovation of historic buildings, as well as on the construction of new sites.  For instance, 19th century lecture hall ("auditorium maximum") has been carefully restored, just like the university's main administrative building and many other buildings in the historic center of town. A new campus for natural sciences (physics, chemistry, biochemistry), medicine, IT and mathematics is under construction in the eastern part of the city.  The new domiciles of  Greifswald  University  Library, the departments of physics, biology and biochemistry have already been completed.  The university hospital, which is thought to be completed in 2009, will be the most up-to-date full-scale hospital in  Germany, adding to the appeal of the  Greifswald  Medical  School.  As a consequence of the construction of the new  Greifswald  University  Hospital building, all historic 19th and early 20th century buildings that were formerly used by the hospital will be transferred to house other disciplines, thus creating an old-town campus for such departments as law and economics, the humanities and social sciences, and improving research and teaching considerably.  As one of only 17 out of a total of 52 proposed building projects of "national significance" across  Germany, the national government has agreed to subsidise the construction of a new pharmacology research lab (in  Germany, education is usually cared for by the  German states and not by the national government, which only supports a few projects of national and international importance).

There have been frequent debates as to whether  Arndt's name is desirable for the university or not, but attempts to change the university's name have always been rejected.  The  Nazi history of the  University is being researched only now.

The rectorate, consisting of the rector two vice rectors, and the chancellor, represents the university as a whole, sets the main guidelines development, distributes the finances, opens and closes study programmes, and appoints professors.  The chancellor is the head of the university administration, and manages the university's budget.  The rector is elected by the senate for a six-year term, the chancellor for an eight-year term, and the two vice rectors are elected to serve for two years.

The senate is the second governing institution of the university.  The senate elects the rectorate, and is itself elected by the members of the university, i.e. by students and staff.  Senators serve for two years, student senators for one year.  The senate consists of scientific staff members (divided into professors and non-professors), students, and non-scientific staff members (librarians, administration officials, etc.).

Moreover, there is a university council ( Universitätsrat), consisting of six prominent members of the public who are elected by the senate to advise the university in various ways.

The student union and the student parliament represent the interests of the students.

The buildings of the arts and humanities, law, business studies, and theology are scattered about the historic center of the  City of  Greifswald.  The newly built facilities for the natural sciences, mathematics, medicine, pharmacy, dentistry are situated to the east of the city centre, offering top-standard research opportunities.  Like many  European universities,  Greifswald  University is separated into five faculties ( German:  Fakultät) and among those further subdivided into departments ( Institut).

The  Medical  Faculty at the  University of  Greifswald is among the best-ranked in  Germany and the admission requirements are among the highest in  Germany.

Courses are offered in biology, chemistry, biochemistry, geography, geology,  Mathematics, IT, pharmacy and physics.

The physics department of the  University of  Greifswald, together with the  Max- Planck- Institut für  Plasmaphysik and the  Leibniz  Institute of  Plasma  Research and  Technology, is a major international research hub in the field of plasma physics, attempting to solve future energy problems with the research reactor  Wendelstein 7-X.

Since 2007, the  Department of  Physics takes care of the construction of a space telescope called  Mu ST An G ( Muon  Spaceweather  Telescope for  Anisotropies at  Greifswald), which will be part of a worldwide network of telescopes in  Japan,  Brazil,  Australia and  Germany.  The telescope will enable physicists and astrononomers at  Greifswald  University to forecast solar activity and has been co-funded by the  European  Space  Agency (ESA) and the  Deutsches  Zentrum für  Luft- und  Raumfahrt.  In addition to  Mu ST An G, the university owns an observatory, which is taken care of by a private initiative and open to the public.

Greifswald offers two multi-disciplinary approaches to environmental studies, called landscape ecology and environmental sciences bringing together different disciplines such as biology, geography, economics, law, and ethics.

The pharmacy department and the biotechnology department are also in the top group in  Germany.  The government-funded  National  Research  Centre for  Animal  Disease on the  Isle of  Riems co-operates loosely with the university and is named  Friedrich- Loeffler- Institut in honour of the university's former member of staff,  Friedrich  Loeffler.

The  University of  Greifswald owns an ornithological station on the  German island  Hiddensee.

The faculty of theology was founded when the university was founded in 1456.  Notable theologians have studied or worked here, for example  Johannes  Bugenhagen who was a close friend of  Martin  Luther.

Greifswald  University  Library traces its roots back to the year 1456.  In 1604, the first centralised university library in  Germany was founded in  Greifswald.  Today, there are two central libraries situated at the  Old  Campus and the  Science  Campus, respectively.  In addition to the central libraries, many departments and institutes have their own libraries ( German:  Fachbibliothek).

As is customary in  Germany, the academic year is divided into two semesters.  The "winter term" ( Wintersemester) lasts from  October to  March, and the "summer term" ( Sommersemester) from  April to  September.  During the winter term, teaching usually takes place from mid- October to the end of  January – the remainder being reserved for exams and the writing of term papers.  Teaching during the summer term lasts from mid- April to mid- July.

Aside from teaching and research, one of major tasks of the university is cooperation with partners outside the actual university.

Research emphasis lies in the field of plasma physics, landscape ecology, medicine, biotechnology, the  Middle  Ages and the languages and cultures of countries bordering the  Baltic  Sea.

The  University of  Greifswald aims to extend and efficiently use its international contacts.  The primary geographic focus of international collaboration is  Northern  Europe and  Eastern  Europe, which is due to the university's research focus in this area.  Partnerships with foreign universities to foster exchange of people (staff and students alike) and ideas is conducted in two different ways.  Firstly, through official partnership agreements with foreign universities, which involves the entire university and most or all of her disciplines.  Secondly, through contacts of professors, departments, and schools, which usually involves only one or few disciplines.

Student exchange from and to  Greifswald is co-ordinated by the university's international office ( Akademisches  Auslandsamt).  The  University of  Greifswald has signed several official partnership agreements with other universities to foster international co-operation through faculty and student exchange and academic co-operation.  In  Northern  Europe, the university has signed partnership agreements with universities in  Denmark (Århus,  Holbæk),  Finland ( Helsinki), and  Sweden ( Lund).  In  Eastern  Europe, partnership agreements have been signed with universities in the  Czech  Republic ( Brno),  Estonia ( Tartu),  Latvia ( Riga),  Lithuania ( Vilnius,  Klaipeda),  Poland ( Poznan,  Szczecin), and  Russia ( Kaliningrad,  Saint  Petersburg).  An exceptions are the  University of  Aberdeen as one of the ancient universities of  Scotland, and the  University of  Padua in  Italy.  The university has also signed various cooperation agreements with universities outside of  Europe, e.g. the  University of  South  Australia, the  University of  Newcastle,  Australia,  Widener  University in  Pennsylvania, the  University of  Manitoba and the  University of  Saskatchewan ( Canada), the  National  University of  Singapore (humanities) or  Berkeley (humanities) and the  University of  Illinois at  Urbana- Champaign ( United  States).

In addition to official partnership agreements (see above) on the university level, there also numerous other channels of international contact on the level of chairs, departments or academic faculties, which often also include student exchange through the ERASMUS programme.  Co-operation of this kind takes place with numerous prestigious universities, including those in  Barcelona,  Bergen,  Gothenburg,  Graz,  Copenhagen,  Lancaster,  Oslo,  Prague,  Reykjavík,  Stockholm,  Southampton,  Uppsala or  Utrecht.

The university and its research partners regularly organise events for the general public, in the form of lecture series or public discussions.  There is an annual "children's university" week as well as a family university, in which current trends in research are presented in a more popular form.  Every semester, the student union organises a "24 hour lecture", in which many researchers of the university present interesting topics in short lectures starting at 6 pm on a  Friday, and ending at 6 pm on the following  Saturday.

The  University of  Greifswald was a large scale land owner until post- World  War II communist land reforms.  It owned more than 140 square kilometres of arable land, the revenue of which was the basis for its financial independence and wealth.  It was one of the wealthiest universities in  Germany.  Parts of the land that the university previously possessed have been given back to the university since the  German reunification, but some claims are still pending in court.  Today, the university again manages some of the land previously owned, including a large forest near  Eldena that is open to the public, but the revenue is low compared to other sources of funding.  The university-owned forest is administered by a "university forester".

The former financial independence of the university can still be seen in many historic buildings as well as a notable collection of art and other possessions.  The university has some its artworks and possessions on display in museums across the country.  Ernst  Bogislaw von  Croÿ donated the  Croy  Tapestry, a tapestry depicting the  Reformation from 1554.  The university also owns one of only four remaining 36-line  Gutenberg  Bibles from the year 1458.  The university owns various paintings and other artworks as well as a great number of historic books, some of which are lent for exhibition to independent public museums.  The  University of  Greifswald runs  Greifswald  Botanic  Garden.  It also runs a few collections and museums herself, some of which are open to visitors:

A number of subjects at the  University of  Greifswald are among the most selective in  Germany for undergraduate admissions (e.g. see here for the medical school). A number of other subjects such as the languages and cultures of  Northern  Europe and the  Eastern  Europe, philosophy,  European history, physics, biochemistry, fine arts, church music have also continually achieved national and international attention.

Moreover, the  University of  Greifswald is frequently described as one of the most popular universities for undergraduate admission in  Germany, which is due to a very good study environment as well as a co-operative spirit between faculty and students.  The small size of only 12,000 students (quantity) is comparable to other small universities such as  St  Andrews or  Yale.

The  University of  Greifswald can look back at a long tradition of academic excellence and international collaboration, which reaches back to 1436, when the first teaching began.  As one of the oldest universities in  Germany, it reached a peak in terms of wealth and reputation in the 19th and at the beginning of the 20th century, which was, however, set back by two  World  Wars (1914–1918, 1939–1945) and the  Communist education doctrine and private ownership reforms of the former  East  Germany (1945–1990).  Today, the university aspires to take back its old place among the world's universities, and has both strengthened its long traditions and welcomed new trends and innovations.  The continued efforts to regain academic leadership are mirrored in national top placements, e.g. in the 2009  Die  Zeit university ranking, in several subjects including for instance biology (2009), medicine (2009), geography, law (2008) pharmacy, psychology, dentistry (2009), and business administration (2008).

As of 2015, the renowned  Times  Higher  Education  World  University  Rankings lists the  University of  Greifswald among the best 350 universities in the world.

In autumn 2009, there were 12,500 students enrolled in  Greifswald, i.e. a quarter of the town's total population of 53,000 were students.  According to a 2008 study,  Greifswald is  Germany's 'youngest city', having the highest percentage of households by people under 30 years of age.  In 2008, 59.4 percent of all students were female, the remaining male.  Two thirds of the enrolled students in 2009 came to  Greifswald from outside the state of  Mecklenburg- Vorpommern, and 5.3 percent were foreign nationals.

Greifswald is situated in close proximity to the sea (near the islands Rügen and  Usedom), about 200 km to the north of  Germany's capital city,  Berlin, and 100 km east of  Mecklenburg- Vorpommern's largest city,  Rostock.  There are train connections, and high-speed autobahn links to  Hamburg,  Rostock, and  Berlin.

The city of  Greifswald has several museums, a theatre and a philharmonic orchestra as well as a breadth of sports clubs and societies. A medium-sized convention centre called  Stadthalle  Greifswald exists.

According to a 2009 study, 44% of all people in  Greifswald use their bicycle for daily transport, which is the highest such rate in  Germany.

The university's  Hochschulsport (college sports) offers a wide range of opportunities to students who wish to do sports.  Courses are available in nearly all disciplines, for instance aerobics,  American football, football (soccer), dragon boat, fencing, handball, judo, karate, canoeing, lacrosse, rugby, surfing, diving, taekwondo, tennis, table tennis, volleyball or yoga.  The regular local sports clubs are frequented by students, too.

Greifswald is situated near the sea and the area between isles of Rügen and  Usedom is among the most picturesque and best sailing and yachting regions in the whole of  Germany.  It is renowned for its steady winds.

There are a number of sailing and yachting clubs that are frequented by staff and students alike.  There are two  Sailing  Clubs especially for students, the  Studentischer  Regattaverein, founded in 2007, which offers its  Members a wide  Range of  Sailing  Boats to take part in  Regattas like  Star, J/24, OK  Dinghy,  Europe,  Vaurien, H  Dinghy and a  Nacra 5.0.  The other one, being the oldest  Sailing  Club in  Greifswald, is the  Akademischer  Seglerverein ( Academic  Sailing  Club).

There is a golf club called  Hanseatischer  Golfclub which is popular with university staff and students alike.  It hosts the annual  Moritz  Golf  Cup.

The student-run, not-for-profit clubs  Mensaclub,  Geographenkeller,  Geologenkeller,  Club 9 and  Kiste are very popular and provide an inexpensive way of going out and meeting other students.  There are several movie clubs who regularly show movies in  German,  English or in other languages.  Apart from the localities that are run by students, there is an abundance of different pubs, clubs and restaurants.

For those wishing to attend music events, there are a number of concerts (rock, pop, etc.) in local pubs and venues throughout the year, as well as the annual " Bach  Festival" called  Greifswalder  Bachwoche and the philharmonic concerts, open air operas and concerts, operas, theatre performances, and ballet are offered by the  Theater  Vorpommern.

Popular destinations for water- and beach-related activities during the summer are the nearby spa towns on the isles of Rügen and  Usedom, e.g.  Binz,  Sellin,  Heringsdorf.  The coast of  Mecklenburg- Vorpommern is one of the most popular summer tourist destinations in  Germany.

There is also a small beach in  Greifswald- Eldena.  The  Stadtpark (city park) is situated to the northeast of the city centre next to a small zoo.  The  Ryck river crosses the city, and is only a 2-minute walk from the central market square.  There are old boats, a pedestrian bridge and a few bars at the riverbank, which is full of students in the summer.

People who enjoy being outdoors make use of the fact that three of  Germany's 14 national parks –  Jasmund, Müritz and  Vorpommersche  Boddenlandschaft – can be reached within one hour or less from  Greifswald.

As is customary at  German universities, students are generally required to arrange for their own housing.  There are a few low-rate student dorms in the town, however a large majority of students share private flats with a couple of other students ( German:  Wohngemeinschaft, abbreviated WG), or live in single apartments.  In recent years, it has become increasingly difficult for newly matriculated students to find appropriate flats in  Greifswald, which is due to a growing number of students and a stagnating market.  As landlords often prefer their prospective tenants to be fluent in  German, this may cause disadvantages for international students wishing to rent their own place.  However, the university usually arranges dorm rooms for international students.

As in any other university town, there are groups and organisations of various colours, e.g. human rights groups, political or religious youth organisations, environmental protection groups, and the like.  There is a local ESN chapter for international students.  Gr I Stu F –  Greifswald  International  Students  Festival – brings together students from all over the world each summer to discuss, party and compete with each other.

The A St A and the student parliament ( Stu Pa) work to represent the interests of all students towards the university and society as a whole.

The following music groups are open to faculty and students, e.g.

Nordischer  Klang ( Nordic  Sound) – an international festival of  Scandinavian and  Nordic culture – takes place each year in  Greifswald and is actively supported by students and members of staff.  Nordischer  Klang introduces the cultures of  Denmark,  Finland,  Iceland,  Norway, and  Sweden to the  German public and is the largest festival of  Nordic culture outside of the  Nordic countries.  It comprises lectures, movies, theatre performances, live jazz music, fine art and literature.

polenm A Rk T ( Polandm A Rke T) is a  German-polish festival taking place every  November in the  Hanseatic city  Greifswald.  It was created in 1997 to connect  Germany and  Poland - mainly in cultural aspects.  It is organized by the  Polenm A Rk T e.V. (an association) and a pool of volunteers.  It was supported by the  Embassy of  Poland, the city  Greifswald, the  University of  Greifswald and its students.  Looking back at a 14-year-long period of growth it is one of the most important cultural events in the  Hanseatic city.  The organiserrs managed to establish the event sustainable into  Greifswald`s citizens interests.

There is a monthly student magazine called moritz- Magazin, which read by the majority of students and publishes stories not only about university politics but also about culture in general. A popular radio98eins local/regional radio station is operated mainly by students and presents independent music and local news.  Students who wish to get experience in television may want to join moritz TV the student TV channel.

Greifswald has a number of different student fraternities and sororities, which are called  Studentenverbindungen (the singular is  Studentenverbindung).  Studentenverbindungen have a long tradition as most of them were founded in the 19th century, and they are to some extent comparable to the fraternities in the  United  States.  As traditional symbols (couleur) corporation members wear coloured caps and ribbons at ceremonial occasions ( Kommers) and some still practice the traditional academic fencing, a kind of duel, in order to "shape their members for the challenges of life".  In the 19th and early 20th century, corporations played an important role in  Germany's student life.  Today, however, corporations include only a relatively small number of students.  Their self-declared mission is to keep academic traditions alive and to create friendships for life.  The political views of the fraternities are more or less conservative, but two of them ( Rugia and  Markomannia) have been linked to the far-right NPD.

The  University of  Greifswald is associated with a number of notable people, including both former students and faculty.  For instance, two  Nobel prize laureates as well as two  German chancellors have studied or worked in  Greifswald.

Johannes  Stark (1874–1957) received the  Nobel  Prize in  Physics in 1919 (see  Nobel  Prize  Website) "for his discovery of the  Doppler effect in canal rays and the splitting of spectral lines in electric fields" during his time at the  University of  Greifswald.  In 1939,  Gerhard  Domagk (1895–1964) received the  Nobel  Prize in  Medicine (see  Nobel  Prize  Website) "for the discovery of the antibacterial effects of prontosil".  The university was named in honour of its former student and faculty member, the writer, politician and poet  Ernst  Moritz  Arndt.  Otto von  Bismarck, chancellor of the  German  Empire from 1871–1890 and the "engineer" of the  Unification of  Germany in 1871, had a connection to  Greifswald when he studied at the agricultural college, as well as one of his successors,  Prince  Bernhard von Bülow, who was chancellor of the  German  Empire from 1900 to 1909.

Franz  Seldte, a chemist by profession, worked as  German labour minister.  Johannes  Bugenhagen, who introduced the  Reformation in much of  Northern  Germany and  Scandinavia was a student at the  University of  Greifswald and  Thomas  Thorild, a  Swedish poet spent parts of his life in  Greifswald.  Alfred  Gomolka,  Member of the  European  Parliament for the CDU, worked for the university as well as the mathematician  Felix  Hausdorff.  Bernhard  Windscheid is one of the fathers of present  German civil law.  Ferdinand  Sauerbruch,  Theodor  Billroth,  Johann  Friedrich  Dieffenbach and  Friedrich  Loeffler made important contributions to the field of medical science.  Hermann Löns became famous as a poet just like the discovers of  Africa explorer  Gustav  Nachtigal became known around the world.  Carl  Schmitt, one of the most influential figures of 20th century political science was a member of staff.  Mie scattering is named for  Gustav  Mie, a former professor of  Physics.  Georg  Friedrich  Schömann,  Ulrich von  Wilamowitz- Moellendorff were noted classical philologists.  Ernst W.  Mayr, one of the 20th century's most influential evolutional biologists, studied at the  University of  Greifswald.

A number of public figures received honorary doctorates of the  University of  Greifswald, including  Jacques  Delors (former  President of the  European  Commission) and  Hannelore  Kohl (wife of former  German chancellor  Helmut  Kohl).

The  University of  Greifswald and her research partners have also been visited by a number of heads of states, including then-chancellor of  Germany  Gerhard  Schröder (2000, 2001), chancellor  Angela  Merkel (2010 and 2013),  Presidents of  Germany  Roman  Herzog (1997),  Horst Köhler (2006),  Joachim  Gauck (2013), and  Queen  Silvia of  Sweden (2006).The  University of  Hagen ( German:  Fern Universität in  Hagen, informally often referred to as FU  Hagen) is a public research university that is primarily focused on distance teaching.  While its main campus is located in  Hagen,  North  Rhine- Westphalia,  Germany, the university maintains more than 50 study and research centers in  Germany and throughout  Europe.  According to the  Federal  Statistical  Office of  Germany it is  Germany's largest university.  The university was founded in 1974 as a public research university by the state  Nordrhein- Westfalen and began its research and teaching activities in 1975.  It was founded following the idea of UK's  Open  University to provide higher and continuing education opportunities through a distance education system in  Germany.

The university awards the same qualifications as other  German on-campus universities and maintains the same high requirements.  Initially, the university had only three faculties with 1,304 full and part-time students, but today the university has developed into  Germany's leading institution for distance education and is the only full university in that field with a student body of 83,536 students in the summer term of 2013 and 86,889 students in the winter term 2013/14.  Besides the substantial number of off-campus students, a considerable number of full-time postgraduate research students as well as more than 1,800 members of academic and research staff are based on the  University of  Hagen's main campus in  Hagen.

The faculties of the  University of  Hagen award undergraduate, graduate and postdoctoral degrees (bachelor's, master's, doctorate degrees ( Ph. Ds) and enable habilitation).  All the degrees awarded by the  University of  Hagen are equivalent to those awarded by traditional  German universities and uphold rigorous academic standards.  The  University of  Hagen is awarding degrees and is doing research in the fields of  Business  Administration and  Economics,  Mathematics,  Computer  Science,  Law,  Psychology,  Cultural  Sciences and  Political  Science.  The  University has produced many notable alumni in the fields of law, economics, business and politics, among them two  Gottfried  Wilhelm  Leibniz  Prize winners, 1  Gossen  Prize laureate, at least 25 university professors and numerous members of the  German parliament and the former  Foreign  Minister and  Vice  Chancellor of  Germany,  Guido  Westerwelle.

The  University of  Hagen is a member of the  European  University  Association (EUA),  European  Association of  Distance  Teaching  Universities (EADTU) and it is accredited by ACQUIN, FIBAA ( Foundation for  International  Business  Administration  Accreditation) as well as AQAS ( Agentur für  Qualitätssicherung durch  Akkreditierung von  Studiengängen).

Lifelong learning, further education concurrent with work, along with the necessity to relieve the overcrowded on-campus universities have been important topics in the early seventies of the last century.  All this inspired the then minister of  Higher  Education and  Research of the state  North  Rhine  Westphalia to establish a public research university at  Hagen dedicated to distance teaching.  Under the NRW- Foundation  Law of 1  December 1974 the "pioneers" from academia and administration had only ten months for preparing the new university, so that 1,300 students could embark on their studies from winter academic term 1975/76.  The two academic departments of economics and mathematics were soon joined by business administration, education, cultural sciences, social sciences and humanities, as well as electrical engineering, information technology, law and computer science.  After some restructuring these subject areas are organised in four faculties today.  Simultaneously with the  Fern Universität, the first study centres in  North  Rhine -  Westphalia started operating.

According to the  Bologna  Process every course offered by the university has been transformed to bachelor's and master's degrees.  The transformation was finished in 2010.  Due to the transformation a sharp rise in the number of students was observable, e.g. 3,400 new students seeking a bachelor's degree in psychology enrolled in 2009.

The  Rectorate is the 'executive body' of the university, headed by rector  Helmut  Hoyer.  The rectorate consists of the chancellor,  Regina  Zdebel, who is the head of the central administration and responsible for the university's budgeting, and three pro-rectors, who are responsible for international relations, teaching and communication, and research and structure respectively.

The  Senate is the 'legislative branch' of the university.  The rector and the members of the rectorate are senators ex officio, as are also the deans of the faculties, and the university's equal opportunities officer.  Another 20 senators are elected for four-year terms, within the following quotas: eight university professors; four academic staff; four delegates of the student body; and four employees of the university administration.

The  University  Council is the advisory board to the aforementioned entities.  Amongst others its members include many CE Os of  German industries, it formerly also included the late  President of  Germany  Johannes  Rau.

After a 2006 structural reformation, the university consists of 4 faculties, which in turn comprise several disciplines, departments, and institutes.  As a consequence of the  Bologna process, most faculties now offer  Bachelor's,  Master's, and  Ph.D. degrees to comply with the new  European degree standard. A notable exception is the undergraduate program in law, from which students still graduate with the  Staatsexamen (state examination), a central examination at  Master's level held by the  State of  North  Rhine- Westphalia.  Each of the faculties is headed by a dean and a faculty council overseeing the research and teaching conducts.

The university is organised in four faculties:

Initially,  Fern Universität's departments were housed in rented apartments and buildings located all over  Hagen and even outside the city.  The development of  Fern Universität's campus near the roadways A 45 and A 46 began in 1980 with the first office building  Allgemeines  Verfügungszentrum (AVZ I).  Since the first building constructed several further buildings followed and increased the university campus, among them:  The  Eugen- Schmalenbach- Building (AVZ II), the  Philipp- Reis- Building, the  Centre of  Technology and  Innovation (TGZ), the extension of the  University  Library, and the new canteen.  As more and more university buildings are concentrated on the  Campus, it has become easier for the academic staff of different academic areas to cooperate and engage in cross-disciplinary research.

Furthermore, as a distance university, the  University of  Hagen operates numerous regional and study centers located across  Germany and in other  European countries, which are an important aspect of the university's blended learning concept.  At these regional and study centers students attend mandatory seminars and preparatory classes for exams, study together with other students, borrow books, and find mentors.  Today, the university has more than 50 study centres within  Germany and cooperates intensively with several other renowned institutions, such as  Karlsruhe  Institute of  Technology,  Goethe  University  Frankfurt,  Johannes  Kepler  University of  Linz or the  University of  Jena to broaden their teaching options and research.

The  University of  Hagen provides the opportunity to study for a  Ph.D on a part-time as distance option, or a full-time on- Campus basis in all of its disciplines offered.  The university also offers a range of  Master's levels modules such as the MBA, M. Sc and M.A., as well as the  German  Staatsexamen for its law degree.

Unlike  German campus universities, degree awarding ceremonies at the  University of  Hagen are not graduation ceremonies as such, but insteade  University of  Hagen graduates normally graduate in absentia at a joint meeting of the university's  Council and  Senate (" Congregation") which takes place at a meeting entirely separate from the degree ceremony.

The academic year is divided into two semesters.  The winter semester runs from  October 1- March 31 and the summer semester from  April 1- September 30.  Online and self-study courses are held from mid- October to mid- February and mid- April to mid- July.  Additionally, the  University of  Hagen offers presence classes and special seminars, some of which are required to graduate successfully.  Students can generally begin their studies in the winter or in the summer semester.  The standard time required to finish a  Bachelor's degree's course load of 180 ECTS in full-time study is set at six semesters.  The overall period of study for an undergraduate degree is divided into two parts: a period of basic study, equalling a course load of four semesters, at the end of which students must sit a formal examination, and a period of advanced study, equalling the course load of two semesters, after which students take their final examinations.  Master's degrees, if done as full-time study, usually equalling the course load of four semesters.  However, since a large proportion of the student body at the  University of  Hagen is studying in part-time, the regular study time can deviate but is not allowed to exceed a specific number of semesters.  The normal duration of  Ph.D. programs for full-time students is 6 semesters.

The  University of  Hagen supports focus- and profile-oriented research.  Interdisciplinary and cross-faculty collaboration leads to the grouping together of competencies and to the formation of competitive research focal points.  At the same time, basic and applied research is the basis for promoting the new generation of academics.

In the fields of research and development the FU  Hagen's faculties and chairs hold a wide array of diverse cooperations with renowned international scientific institutions, companies, associations (like the  Kurt  Haertel  Institute for  Intellectual  Property) as well as public institutions.  Furthermore, exchange of technology and knowledge is conducted through a variety of cooperation projects between science and industry, ranging from final theses by arrangement with the individual employer to commissioned research.  Moreover, joint development of academic further education programs with companies, associations and scientific institutions contributes to the interlinking of academia and practice.

The FU  Hagen, its faculties and institutions cooperate closely with numerous institutions of higher education (both traditional and distance teaching universities) and scientific institutions all over the world.  The international cooperation agreements comprise all areas of the university: teaching, studies, research, administration and system development.  They are complemented by the  Fern Universität's active membership in  European and international associations and networks, and by the numerous international cooperation projects resulting from these.

Since the 1980s the  University of  Hagen has operated study centres on a joint basis with partner institutions abroad – first in the  German-speaking countries and later also in the countries of  Central and  Eastern  Europe.  These study centers aim to spread information about the  German language-based programs of study offered via modern distance education, and they are intended to support students of the university.  Furthermore, the faculties of the  Fern Universität and their international partner institutions of higher education jointly offer programs of study leading to international dual degrees.  The FU  Hagen participates in the EU funding programs in higher education and research.

The special status of the  Fern Universität  Hagen as a university for distance learning mostly excludes the university from being ranked in general rankings.  Only the renowned CHE ranking included the university in its university ranking of 2005 and evaluated the quality of the subjects  Economics,  Sociology and  Business  Administration.  The departments of sociology and business administration received stellar placements - both research intensity and quality were emphasised to be in line with those of other top placed departments of on-campus universities.

The  University of  Hagen had a student body of 83,536 students in the summer term of 2013.  The average age of the immatriculated students was 32 years.  About 80% of the students at the FU  Hagen are in full or part-time employment and 19% have already received a first academic degree.The  Martin  Luther  University of  Halle- Wittenberg ( German:  Martin- Luther- Universität  Halle- Wittenberg), also referred to as MLU, is a public, research-oriented university in the cities of  Halle and  Wittenberg within  Saxony- Anhalt,  Germany. MLU offers  German and international ( English) courses leading to academic degrees such as B.A., B. Sc., M.A., M. Sc., doctoral degrees and  Habilitation.

The university was created in 1817 through the merger of the  University of  Wittenberg (founded 1502) and the  University of  Halle (founded 1691).  The university is named after the  Protestant reformer  Martin  Luther, who was a professor in  Wittenberg.  Today, the university itself is located in  Halle, while the  Leucorea  Foundation in  Wittenberg serves as MLU’s convention centre (and hotel) for seminars as well as for academic and political conferences.  Both  Halle and  Wittenberg are about one hour from  Berlin via the  Berlin– Halle railway, which offers  Intercity- Express (ICE) trains.

The  University of  Wittenberg ( Universität  Wittenberg) was founded in 1502 by  Frederick the  Wise,  Elector of  Saxony.  Under the influence of  Philipp  Melanchthon, building on the works of  Martin  Luther, the university became a centre of the  Protestant  Reformation, even incorporating, at one point in time,  Luther's house in  Wittenberg, the  Lutherhaus, as part of the campus.  Notable attendees include  George Müller,  Georg  Joachim  Rheticus and – in fiction –  William  Shakespeare's  Prince  Hamlet and  Horatio and  Christopher  Marlowe's  Doctor  Faustus.

The  University of  Halle ( Universität  Halle) was founded in 1694 by  Frederick III,  Elector of  Brandenburg, who became  Frederick I,  King in  Prussia, in 1701.

In the late 17th century and early 18th century,  Halle became a centre for  Pietism within  Prussia.

In the 17th and 18th centuries the universities were centers of the  German  Enlightenment.  Christian  Wolff was an important proponent of rationalism.  He influenced many  German scholars, such as  Immanuel  Kant.  Christian  Thomasius was at the same time the first philosopher in  Germany to hold his lectures not in  Latin, but  German.  He contributed to a rational programme in philosophy but also tried to establish a more common-sense point of view, which was aimed against the unquestioned superiority of aristocracy and theology.

The institutionalisation of the local language ( German) as the language of instruction, the prioritisation of rationalism over religious orthodoxy, new modes of teaching, and the ceding of control over their work to the professors themselves, were among various innovations which characterised the  University of  Halle, and have led to its being referred to as the first "modern" university, whose liberalism was adopted by the  University of Göttingen about a generation later, and subsequently by other  German and then most  North  American universities.

The  University of  Wittenberg was closed in 1813 during the  Napoleonic  Wars.  The town of  Wittenberg was granted to  Prussia in the  Congress of  Vienna in 1815, and the university was then merged with the  Prussian  University of  Halle in 1817.  It took its present name on 10  November 1933.

More than a dozen professors were expelled.  Others were shifted to  Halle- Wittenberg from universities regarded as "better" at the time, which led to the university being called an academic  Vorkuta – after the largest center of the  Gulag camps in  European  Russia).

Following the continental  European academic tradition, MLU has 9 faculties, regrouping academic staff and students according to their field of studies (as opposed to the  Anglo- Saxon collegiate university model):

MLU is enclosed by a variety of research institutions, which have either institutional or personal links with the university or cooperate occasionally in their respective fields of studies:

Even though MLU is an academic, research oriented institution, not an academy of music or conservatory, the university has an academic orchestra, founded in 1779, and a rather prestigious choir, founded in 1950, which together constitute the so-called  Collegium musicum.  Members are mostly gifted students of all faculties, but also academic staff and alumni.  The university choir regularly performs at the international  Handel  Festival in  George  Frideric  Handel’s birthplace,  Halle.

Given the history and reputation of the  Martin  Luther  University of  Halle- Wittenberg, numerous notable personalities attended the institution, such as  Nobel laureates  Emil  Adolf von  Behring,  Gustav  Ludwig  Hertz,  Hermann  Staudinger and  Karl  Ziegler, as well as  Anton  Wilhelm  Amo (the first colored  Sub- Saharan  African known to have attended a  European university),  Dorothea  Erxleben (the first female medical doctor in  Germany),  Henry  Melchior  Muhlenberg, the  Patriarch of the  Lutheran  Church in  America, and his son,  Frederick  Muhlenberg (the first  Speaker of the  House of  Representatives of the  United  States),  Hans  Dietrich  Genscher ( Germany’s longest serving  Foreign  Minister and  Vice  Chancellor), and:The  University of  Hamburg ( German:  Universität  Hamburg) is a comprehensive university in  Hamburg,  Germany.  It was founded on 28  March 1919, having grown out of the previous  General lecture system ( Allgemeines  Vorlesungswesen) and the  Colonial  Institute of  Hamburg ( Hamburgisches  Kolonialinstitut) as well as the  Akademic  Gymnasium.  In spite of its relatively short history, five  Nobel  Prize  Winners and serials of scholars are affiliated to the university.  University of  Hamburg is the biggest research and education institution in  Northern  Germany and one of the most extensive universities in  Germany.  The main campus is located in the central district of  Rotherbaum, with affiliated institutes and research centres spread around the city state.

At the beginning of the 20th  Century, wealthy individuals made several petitions to the  Hamburg  Senate and  Parliament requesting the establishment of a university, however those were made to no avail.  Although for a time, senator  Werner von  Melle supported the merger of existing institutions into one university, this plan failed because of the parliaments composition due to the effects of class voting.  Much of the establishment wanted to see  Hamburg limited to its dominant role as a trading center and shunned both the costs of a university and the social demands of the professors that would have to be employed.

Progress was made however, since proponents of a university founded the  Hamburg  Science  Foundation ( Hamburgische  Wissenschaftliche  Stiftung) in 1907 and the  Hamburg  Colonial  Institute in 1908.  The former institution supported the recruitment of scholars for the chairs of the  General lecture system and funding of research cruises, and the latter was responsible for all education and research questions concerning overseas territories.  In the same year, the citizenry approved a construction site on the  Moorweide for the establishment of a lecture building, which opened in 1911 and later became the  Main  Building of the university.  However, the plans for the foundation of the university itself had to be shelved, following the outbreak of the  First  World  War.

After the war, the first freely elected senate choose von  Melle as mayor.  He and  Rudolf  Ross made a push for education reform in  Hamburg, and their law establishing the university and a  Adult high school finally went through.  On  March 28, 1919 the  University of  Hamburg opened its gates.  The number of full professorships in  Hamburg was increased from 19 to 39.  Both the  Colonial  Institute and the  General  Lecture system were absorbed into the university.  The first faculties created by the university were  Law and  Political  Science,  Medicine,  Philosophy and  Natural  Sciences.

During the  Weimar  Republic, the university quickly grew into importance.  Several thousand students were continuously enrolled, and it drew scholars like  Albrecht  Mendelssohn  Bartholdy,  Aby  Warburg and  Ernst  Cassirer to  Hamburg.  The number of full professors had by 1931 grown to 75.  Because many students were suffering due to the bad economic situation that prevailed in the early republic, the  Hamburg  Association of  Student  Aid was founded in 1922.  Ernst  Cassirer became principal of the university in 1929, one of the first  Jewish scholars with that role in  Germany.

The academic situation shifted quickly after the general election in  March 1933.  Already on  May 1 of that year – the university held a ceremony to honor  Adolf  Hitler as its leader.  Massive political influence by the  Nazis followed, including the removal of books from the libraries and harassment against alleged enemies of the people.  About fifty scientists, including  Ernst  Cassirer and  William  Stern, had to leave the university.

At least ten students working with the  White  Rose in  Hamburg were suspected and arrested; four of them died in custody or were executed.  In the foyer of the lecture hall a design by  Fritz  Fleer commemorative plate was taken in 1971 in memory of the four resistance fighters.

After the  Second  World  War, the university was reopened in the winter of 1945 with 17,800 employees.  Out of the 2,872 students who were enrolled at the  University of  Hamburg in the first postwar semester of 1945/46, 601 had been admitted at the  Philosophical, 952 at the  Medical and 812 to the  Faculty of  Law and  Political  Science.  The smallest number joined the  Faculty of  Mathematics and  Natural  Sciences with 506 students in total.  The first student association during this period was elected in 1946 under  British supervision, and it formed the foundation of the A St A in 1947.

During the  West  German era, new departments were added to the university, most notably the  Faculty of  Theology as well as the  Faculty of  Economic and  Social  Sciences in 1954.  The late 1950s and early 1960s saw a lot of construction: the  Auditorium and the  Philosopher's  Tower where inaugurated near the  Von- Melle- Park, while the  Botanical  Institute and  Botanical  Garden were relocated to  Flottbeck.  The university grew from 12,600 students in 1960 to 19,200 in 1970. A wave of protests during the student movements of 1968 sparked a reform of the university structure, and in 1969 the faculties were dissolved in favor of more interdisciplinary departments.  Student and staff involvement in the administration was also strengthened, and the office of  Rektor abolished in favor of a university president.  However, parts of the reform were later rescinded in 1979.  Further construction in the 1970s also built up the remaining space on the main campus of  Rotherbaum quarter, with the  Geomatikum building and the  Wiwi- Bunker (named for its bunker-like architecture) being the distinctive addition for that decade.  Since then, new properties were opened in other parts of  Hamburg.  Two newly constructed buildings were opened adjacent to the  Main  Building in 1998 and 2002, revitalizing the  Moorweide area of the university.

In 2005, the  Hamburg  University of  Economy and  Politics was merged into the  University of  Hamburg by a political act that was opposed by both institutions.  With the same act, the 17 departments were merged and restructured into six faculties.  The university had also become used to regular cuts of its budget by the federal state of  Hamburg.  The implementation of the  Bologna process was another major point of contention during that decade.  Tuition fees were introduced at 500 euros in 2006, but later reduced to 375 euros and fully abolished in 2012.

Over 180 properties, scattered throughout the city, make up the  University of  Hamburg.  The  Main  Building stands on the  Moorweide opposite  Hamburg  Dammtor station, not far from the main campus at  Von- Melle- Park.  The  State and  University  Library  Hamburg, the  Audimax ( Auditorium) and several other teaching buildings are all located in that area. A second cluster of university buildings are grouped around  Martin  Luther  King  Square in the same quarter.  The  Geomatikum marks the western end of the campus, near  Schlump  Metro  Station.  Several departments are located in other quarters:  Physics is spread over branches at  Jungiusstraße,  Bergedorf (along with the  Hamburg  Observatory) and  Bahrenfeld (with the world-renowned DESY and other facilities).  Biology has locations in  Flottbeck, while  Computer sciences were moved to  Stellingen in 1991.  The medical school is located in the  University  Hospital  Hamburg- Eppendorf.

The annual recruitment of about 7,000 freshmen contributes to the current total of 41,000 students, out of which 6,000 graduate every year, including around 900 with a doctorate.  Students can choose from 149 different majors which are offered by six faculties.  With almost 700 professors engaged in teaching and research, the  University of  Hamburg is the largest in  Hamburg.  In addition, over 3,600 academic staff and 6,100 administrative and technical staff members are employed in the university.  The  University of  Hamburg supports seven  Collaborative  Research  Centres ( German:  Sonderforschungsbereiche) sponsored by the  German  Research  Foundation.

In  October 2012, the university chair decided not to participate in national or international rankings in the foreseable future, stating the administrative expenditures needed as a main reason.  The small sample size used by many rankings and their methodology have also been criticised.  However, the  University of  Hamburg is still being featured in international rankings.  According to the QS  World  University  Rankings, it was placed 186th globally in 2013, with  Arts and  Humanities being the highest ranked subjects at 98th place.

The  Hamburg  State and  University  Library  Carl von  Ossietzky contains over 5 million volumes and is the biggest academic library in the  Hamburg metropolitan area.  It is also used as a legal deposit and archive for the city state.  The establishment of the library can be traced back to 1479.  It owns a large number of special collections and items of historic value, including medieval manuscripts.  Hamburg  University  Press is also part of the library system.

A large number of  Associated  Institutes ( An- Institute) stand in liaison with the university, among them the  Hans- Bredow- Institut for  Media  Research and the  Heinrich  Pette  Institute -  Leibniz  Institute for  Experimental  Virology.  Further institutions include:

The  University of  Hamburg oversees three museums: the  Zoological  Museum  Hamburg, the  Mineralogical  Museum  Hamburg and the  Museum of  Geology and　 Paleontology  Hamburg.  All of them are located on the central campus grounds.  It is also one of the two founding members of the  China-EU  School of  Law in  China, which contains 16 member institutions for providing mid-career training, master's degree and joint doctoral research in  China- European  Law.The  University of  Hannover[nb 1], officially the  Gottfried  Wilhelm  Leibniz  Universität  Hannover, short  Leibniz  Universität  Hannover, is a public university located in  Hannover,  Germany.  Founded in 1831, it is one of the largest and oldest science and technology universities in  Germany.  In the 2014/15 school year it enrolled 25,688 students, of which 2,121 were from foreign countries.  It has nine faculties which offer 190 full and part degree programs in 38 fields of study.  The  University is named after  Gottfried  Wilhelm  Leibniz, the 18th century mathematician and philosopher.

Leibniz  Universität  Hannover is a member of TU9, an association of the nine leading  Institutes of  Technology in  Germany.  It is also a member of the  Conference of  European  Schools for  Advanced  Engineering  Education and  Research (CESAER), a non-profit association of leading engineering universities in  Europe.  The university sponsors the  German  National  Library of  Science and  Technology (TIB), the largest science and technology library in the world.

The roots of the  University of  Hanover begin in the  Higher  Vocational  College/ Polytechnic  Institute ( German: Höhere  Gewerbeschule/ Polytechnische  Schule), founded in 1831.  In 1879 the  Higher  Vocational  School moved into the historic  Guelph  Palace, the  Welfenschloss, which was specially converted for the purpose.  Later, the  Higher  Vocational  School became the  Royal  College of  Technology ( German: Königliche  Technische  Hochschule).  In 1899  Kaiser  Wilhelm II granted the  College of  Technology a status equal to that of universities and the right to confer doctorates.  The  College was reconstructed in 1921 with the financial support of the  College  Patrons’  Association.  There were three faculties:  Mathematics and  Natural  Sciences,  Civil  Engineering,  Mechanical  Engineering.

In 1968 the  Faculty of  Humanities and  Political  Science were founded and the " College of  Technology" became the " Technische  Hochschule" (" Technical  University").  Between 1973 and 1980 the faculties of  Law,  Business and  Economics, the formerly independent  Teachers  Training  College were added to the  University and the " Technical  University" was renamed " University of  Hannover."  Student numbers exceeded 30,000 for the first time in 1991.  On the 175th anniversary of the institution in 2006, the " University of  Hannover" was given the name " Gottfried  Wilhelm  Leibniz  Universität  Hannover."  While 64 pupils first attended the  Vocational  School, today the university now has around 25.700 students, more than 2.900 academics and scientists, and 160 departments and institutes.

The  Senate of the  University voted in  April 2006 to rename the  University of  Hannover to " Leibniz  Universität  Hannover".  Following agreement by the  Leibniz  Academy on the use of the name, the " Gottfried  Wilhelm  Leibniz  Universität  Hannover" received its name on the 360th anniversary of  Gottfried  Wilhelm  Leibniz's birth.  The brand of the university is " Leibniz  Universität  Hannover."

The old logo of the  University was inspired by the  Massachusetts  Institute of  Technology.  The current logo is a stylized excerpt from a letter to  Duke  Rudolf  August of  Wolfenbüttel, in which  Leibniz presented binary numbers for the first time.

Nine faculties with more than 190 first-degree full-time and part-time degree courses make the university the second-largest institution of higher education in  Lower  Saxony.  The university staff comprises 2930 research and teaching staff, of whom 321 are professors.  It has 1810 additional employees in administrative functions, 90 apprentices and some 1400 staff funded by third parties.

The campus of the university is spread over 160 buildings occupying 322,700 m2 of floor space.

The  University's overall budget was approximately 441.8 million euros in 2013, broken down as follows:

The library was established on the founding of the Höhere  Gewerbeschule/ Polytechnische  Schule in 1831.  It expanded into an important collection as the institution evolved from a vocational/technical college into the full  University.  The removal of the books into storage during the  Second  World  War secured valuable old stocks that became a unique national collection of scientific and technical literature in postwar  Germany.  This was the basis on which the library of the  Institute of  Technology ( German:  Technische  Informationsbibliothek) was established in 1959.  Today the collection forms the heart of the  German  National  Library of  Science and  Technology, which is the largest institution of its kind in the world.

GISMA  Business  School in  Hannover,  Germany, was launched in 1999 as a joint initiative by the state of  Lower  Saxony and visionary private-sector enterprises. GISMA is a privately funded, self-administering institution of higher education.  The  School is closely affiliated with the  Krannert  School of  Management at  Purdue  University ( Indiana, USA) and the  Leibniz  University  Hannover,  Germany. GISMA also collaborates with  Tias Nimbas  Business  School of the  Tilburg  University &  Technische  Universiteit  Eindhoven (the  Netherlands), and  Central  European  University’s CEU  Business  School ( Hungary). GISMA  Business  School offers MBA degrees in cooperation with its partners: the  Krannert  School of  Management at  Purdue  University ( Indiana, USA) and the  Leibniz  University  Hannover,  Germany.  The degrees can be pursued either full-time (in 11 months) or part-time.  Besides its MBA programs, GISMA  Business  School also offers tailor-made courses for managerial staff members as well as open courses.Heidelberg  University (informally  Heidelberg,  German:  Ruprecht- Karls- Universität  Heidelberg;  Latin:  Universitas  Ruperto  Carola  Heidelbergensis) is a public research university located in the town of  Heidelberg,  Baden-Württemberg,  Germany.  Founded in 1386 on instruction of  Pope  Urban VI,  Heidelberg is  Germany's oldest university and one of the world's oldest surviving universities.  It was the third university established in the  Holy  Roman  Empire.

Heidelberg has been a coeducational institution since 1899.  The university consists of twelve faculties and offers degree programmes at undergraduate, graduate and postdoctoral levels in some 100 disciplines.  Heidelberg comprises three major campuses: the humanities are predominantly located in  Heidelberg's  Old  Town, the natural sciences and medicine in the  Neuenheimer  Feld quarter, and the social sciences within the inner-city suburb  Bergheim.  The language of instruction is usually  German, while a considerable number of graduate degrees are offered in  English.

Associated with 56  Nobel  Prize laureates, the university places an emphasis on research.  Modern scientific psychiatry, psychopharmacology, psychiatric genetics, environmental physics, and modern sociology were introduced as scientific disciplines by  Heidelberg faculty.  Approximately 1,000 doctorates are completed every year, with more than one third of the doctoral students coming from abroad.  International students from some 130 countries account for more than 20 percent of the entire student body.

Internationally renowned and consistently ranked among  Europe's top universities,  Heidelberg is a  German  Excellence  University, as well as a founding member of the  League of  European  Research  Universities and the  Coimbra  Group.  The university's noted alumni include eleven domestic and foreign  Heads of  State or  Heads of  Government.

The  Great  Schism of 1378 made it possible for  Heidelberg, a relatively small city and capital of the  Electorate of the  Palatinate, to gain its own university.  The  Great  Schism was initiated by the election of two popes after the death of  Pope  Gregory XI in the same year.  One successor resided in  Avignon (elected by the  French) and the other in  Rome (elected by the  Italian cardinals).  The  German secular and spiritual leaders voiced their support for the successor in  Rome, which had far-reaching consequences for the  German students and teachers in  Paris: they lost their stipends and had to leave.

Rupert I recognized the opportunity and initiated talks with the  Curia, which ultimately led to a  Papal  Bull for foundation of a university.  After having received, on 23  October 1385, permission from pope  Urban VI to create a school of general studies ( Latin: studium generale), the final decision to found the university was taken on 26  June 1386 at the behest of  Rupert I,  Count  Palatine of the  Rhine.  As specified in the papal charter, the university was modelled after  University of  Paris and included four faculties: philosophy, theology, jurisprudence, and medicine.

On 18  October 1386 a special  Pontifical  High  Mass in the  Heiliggeistkirche was the ceremony that established the university.  On 19  October 1386 the first lecture was held, making  Heidelberg the oldest university in  Germany.  In  November 1386,  Marsilius of  Inghen was elected first rector of the university.  The rector seal motto was semper apertus—i.e., "the book of learning is always open."

The university grew quickly and in  March 1390, 185 students were enrolled at the university.

Between 1414 and 1418, theology and jurisprudence professors of the university took part in the  Council of  Constance and acted as counselors for  Louis III, who attended this council as representative of the emperor and chief magistrate of the realm.  This resulted in establishing a good reputation for the university and its professors.

Due to the influence of  Marsilius, the university initially taught the nominalism or via moderna.  In 1412, both realism and the teachings of  John  Wycliffe were forbidden at the university but later, around 1454, the university decided that realism or via antique would also be taught, thus introducing two parallel ways (ambae viae).

The transition from scholastic to humanistic culture was effected by the chancellor and bishop  Johann von  Dalberg in the late 15th century.  Humanism was represented at  Heidelberg  University particularly by the founder of the older  German  Humanistic  School  Rudolph  Agricola,  Conrad  Celtes,  Jakob  Wimpfeling, and  Johann  Reuchlin. Æneas  Silvius  Piccolomini was chancellor of the university in his capacity of provost of  Worms, and later always favored it with his friendship and good-will as  Pope  Pius II.  In 1482,  Pope  Sixtus IV permitted laymen and married men to be appointed professors in the ordinary of medicine through a papal dispensation.  In 1553,  Pope  Julius III sanctioned the allotment of ecclesiastical benefice to secular professors.

Martin  Luther's disputation at  Heidelberg in  April 1518 made a lasting impact, and his adherents among the masters and scholars soon became leading  Reformationists in  Southwest  Germany.  With the  Electorate of the  Palatinate turn to the  Reformed faith,  Otto  Henry,  Elector  Palatine, converted the university into a calvinistic institution.  In 1563, the  Heidelberg  Catechism was created under collaboration of members of the university's divinity school.  As the 16th century was passing, the late humanism stepped beside  Calvinism as a predominant school of thought; and figures like  Paul  Schede,  Jan  Gruter,  Martin  Opitz, and  Matthäus  Merian taught at the university.  It attracted scholars from all over the continent and developed into a cultural and academic center.  However, with the beginning of the  Thirty  Years'  War in 1618, the intellectual and fiscal wealth of the university declined.  In 1622, the then-world-famous  Bibliotheca  Palatina (the library of the university) was stolen from the  University  Cathedral and taken to  Rome.  The reconstruction efforts thereafter were defeated by the troops of  King  Louis XIV, who destroyed  Heidelberg in 1693 almost completely.

As a consequence of the late  Counter- Reformation, the university lost its  Protestant character, and was channeled by  Jesuits.  In 1735, the  Old  University was constructed at  University  Square, then known as  Domus  Wilhelmina.  Through the efforts of the  Jesuits a preparatory seminary was established, the  Seminarium ad  Carolum  Borromæum, whose pupils were also registered in the university.  After the suppression of the  Jesuit  Order, most of the schools they had conducted passed into the hands of the  French  Congregation of  Lazarists in 1773.  They deteriorated from that time forward, and the university itself continued to lose in prestige until the reign of the last elector  Charles  Theodore,  Elector  Palatine, who established new chairs for all the faculties, founded scientific institutes such as the  Electoral  Academy of  Science, and transferred the school of political economy from  Kaiserslautern to  Heidelberg, where it was combined with the university as the faculty of political economy.  He also founded an observatory in the neighboring city of  Mannheim, where  Jesuit  Christian  Mayer labored as director.  In connection with the four hundredth anniversary of the university, the elector approved a revised statute book that several professors had been commissioned to prepare.  The financial affairs of the university, its receipts and expenditures, were put in order.  At that time, the number of students varied from 300-400; in the jubilee year, 133 matriculated.  As a consequence of the disturbances caused by the  French  Revolution, and particularly because of the  Treaty of  Lunéville, the university lost all its property on the left bank of the  Rhine, so that its complete dissolution was expected.

This decline did not stop until 1803, when the university was reestablished as a state-owned institution by  Karl  Friedrich,  Grand  Duke of  Baden, to whom the part of the  Palatinate situated on the right bank of the  Rhine was allotted.  Since then, the university bears his name together with the name of  Ruprecht I.  Karl  Friedrich divided the university into five faculties and placed himself at its head as rector, as did also his successors.  During this decade  Romanticism found expression in  Heidelberg through  Clemens  Brentano,  Achim von  Arnim,  Ludwig  Tieck,  Joseph Görres, and  Joseph von  Eichendorff, and there went forth a revival of the  German  Middle  Ages in speech, poetry, and art.

The  German  Students  Association exerted great influence, which was at first patriotic and later political.  After  Romanticism had eventually died out,  Heidelberg became a center of  Liberalism and the movement in favor of  German national unity.  The historians  Friedrich  Christoph  Schlosser and  Georg  Gottfried  Gervinus were the guides of the nation in political history.  The modern scientific schools of medicine and natural science, particularly astronomy, were models in point of construction and equipment, and  Heidelberg  University was especially noted for its influential law school.  The university as a whole became the role model for the transformation of  American liberal arts colleges into research universities, in particular for the then-newly established  Johns  Hopkins  University.  Heidelberg's professors were important supporters of the  Vormärz revolution and many of them were members of the first freely elected  German parliament, the  Frankfurt  Parliament of 1848.  During the late 19th century, the university housed a very liberal and open-minded spirit, which was deliberately fostered by  Max  Weber,  Ernst  Troeltsch and a circle of colleagues around them.

In the  Weimar  Republic, the university was widely recognized as a center of democratic thinking, coined by professors like  Karl  Jaspers,  Gustav  Radbruch,  Martin  Dibelius and  Alfred  Weber.  Unfortunately, there were also dark forces working within the university:  Nazi physicist  Philipp  Lenard was head of the physical institute during that time.  Following the assassination of the liberal  German- Jewish  Foreign  Minister  Walther  Rathenau, he refused to half mast the national flag on the institute, thereby provoking its storming by communist students.

With the advent of the  Third  Reich in 1933, the university supported the  Nazis like all other  German universities at the time.  It dismissed a large number of staff and students for political and racial reasons.  Many dissident fellows had to emigrate and most  Jewish and  Communist professors that did not leave  Germany were deported.  At least two professors directly fell victim to  Nazi terror.  On 17  May 1933, members of the university faculty and students took part in book burnings at  Universitätsplatz (" University  Square") and  Heidelberg eventually became infamous as a NSDAP university.  The inscription above the main entrance of the  New  University was changed from " The  Living  Spirit" to " The  German  Spirit", and many professors paid homage to the new motto.  The university was involved in  Nazi eugenics: forced sterilizations were carried out at the women's clinic and the psychiatric clinic, then directed by  Carl  Schneider, was involved in  Action T4  Euthanasia program.

After the end of  World  War II, the university underwent an extensive denazification.

Since  Heidelberg was spared from destruction during  World  War II, the reconstruction of the university was realized rather quickly.  With the foundation of the  Collegium  Academicum,  Heidelberg  University became the home of  Germany's first and, until today, only self-governed student hall.  Newly laid statutes obliged the university to " The  Living  Spirit of  Truth,  Justice and  Humanity".

During the 1960s and 1970s, the university grew dramatically in size.  At this time, it developed into one of the main scenes of the left-wing student protests in  Germany.  In 1975, a massive police force arrested the entire student parliament A St A.  Shortly thereafter, the building of the  Collegium  Academicum, a progressive college in immediate vicinity to the university's main grounds, was stormed by over 700 police officers and closed once and for all.  On the outskirts of the city, in the  Neuenheimer  Feld area, a large campus for medicine and natural sciences was constructed.

Today, about 28,000 students are enrolled for studies at  Heidelberg  University.  There are 4,196 full-time faculty, including 476 university professors.  In 2007, and again in 2012, the university was appointed  University of  Excellence under an initiative started by the  Federal  Ministry of  Education and  Research and the  German  Research  Foundation.  This enhanced the  German university system by establishing a small network of exceptionally well-funded universities, which are expected to generate strong international appeal.

Heidelberg is a city with approximately 140,000 inhabitants.  It is situated in the  Rhine  Neckar  Triangle, a  European metropolitan area with approximately 2.4 million people living there, comprising the neighboring cities of  Heidelberg,  Mannheim,  Ludwigshafen, and a number of smaller towns in the perimeter.  Heidelberg is known as the cradle of  Romanticism, and its old town and castle are among the most frequented tourist destinations in  Germany.  Its pedestrian zone is a shopping and night life magnet for the surrounding area and beyond.  Heidelberg is about 40 minutes by train away from  Frankfurt  International  Airport.  Heidelberg  University's facilities are, generally speaking, separated in two parts.  The faculties and institutes of humanities and social sciences are embedded in the  Old  Town  Campus.  The sciences faculties and the medical school, including three large university hospitals, are located on the  New  Campus in the  Neuenheimer  Feld on the outskirts of  Heidelberg.

The so-called  New  University is regarded as the center of the  Old  Town  Campus.  It is situated at the  Universitätsplatz ( University  Square) in the pedestrian zone, in direct vicinity to the  University  Library and to the main administration buildings.  The  New  University was officially opened in 1931.  Its erection was largely financed by donations of wealthy  American families, in line with a fundraising campaign of  Jacob  Gould  Schurman, an alumnus of  Heidelberg  University and former  United  States  Ambassador to  Germany.  It houses the new assembly hall, the largest lecture halls, and a number of smaller seminar rooms, mostly used by faculties of humanities and social sciences.  Education in humanities and social sciences takes place to a great extent in buildings spread over the ancient part of town, though most are less than ten minutes walk from  University  Square.  The faculties maintain their own extensive libraries and work spaces for students.  Seminars and tutorials are usually held in the faculty buildings.

The  New  Campus is in the  Neuenheimer  Feld district.  It is now the largest part of the university, and the largest campus for natural sciences and life science in  Germany.  Almost all science faculties and institutes, the medical school,  University  Hospital  Heidelberg, and the science branch of the  University  Library are situated on the  New  Campus.  Most of the dormitories and the athletic facilities of the university can be found there as well.  Several independent research institutes, such as the  German  Cancer  Research  Center and two of the  Max- Planck- Institutes have settled there.  The  New  Campus is also the seat of several biomedical spin-off companies.  The old part of town can be reached by tram and bus in about 10 minutes.  The  Neuenheimer  Feld campus has extensive parking lots for faculty and student vehicles for long term and short term parking, as well as visitors and patients of the various university hospitals.  The  Faculty of  Physics and  Astronomy is not located on either campus, but on the  Philosophers'  Walk, separated from the  Old  Town by the  River  Neckar, and some 2 km (1.2 mi) away from the  New  Campus.  It also maintains observatory facilities on the Königstuhl  Mountain.

The  Bergheim  Campus is located in the former  Ludolf  Krehl clinic (named after  Ludolf von  Krehl) in the inner-city suburb of  Heidelberg- Bergheim.  Since  March 2009 it has housed the institutes economics, political science, and sociology (together the  Heidelberg  University  Faculty of  Economics and  Social  Sciences) that formerly resided at the  Old  Town campus.  The  Bergheim campus offers one lecture theatre, several seminar rooms, the most modern of the university libraries, and a cafe (rather than the full cafeteria present in the other campuses).

The  University  Library is the main library of the university, and constitutes together with the decentralized libraries of the faculties and institutes, the integral university library system comprising approximately 6.7 million printed books.  It is  Germany's most frequently used library, and it is currently placed 1st in a ranking of  Germany's best libraries.  The  University  Library's stocks exceeded one million in 1934.  Today, it holds about 3.2 million books, about 500,000 other media such as microfilms and video tapes, as well as 10,732 scientific periodicals.  Moreover, it holds 6,600 manuscripts, most notably the  Codex  Manesse, 1,800 incunabula, 110,500 autographs, and a collection of old maps, paintings, and photographs.  The further 83 decentralized libraries of the faculties and institutes hold another 3.5 million printed books.  In 2005, 34,500 active users of the  University  Library accessed 1.4 million books a year.  The conventional book supply is complemented by numerous electronic services.  Around 3,000 commercial scientific journals can be accessed via e-journal.  The  University  Library of today traces its roots back to the purchase of a chest of documents by the first  Rector  Marsilius von  Inghen in 1388, which was stored in the  Heiliggeistkirche, then the  University  Cathedral.  Since 1978, the science branch of the  University  Library serves the institutes of natural sciences and medicine on the  New  Campus.

Heidelberg  University founded a  Center for  Latin  America in  Santiago,  Chile in 2001.  It has the task of organizing, managing, and marketing the courses of study maintained either independently by  Heidelberg  University or in cooperation with the  Pontifical  Catholic  University of  Chile and the  University of  Chile.  The center has responsibility for programs of postgraduate education.  It also coordinates the activities of  Heidelberg  University in  Latin  America, and provides a platform for scientific cooperation.

The university is also represented by a liaison office in  New  York.  Its main tasks include promoting existing collaborations, building up new networks, creating joint study programs, and maintaining and expanding academic contacts with  American universities.

In addition, the  Heidelberg  South  Asia  Institute maintains branch offices in  New  Delhi,  India;  Islamabad,  Pakistan;  Kathmandu,  Nepal; and  Colombo,  Sri  Lanka.

The  Rectorate is the 'executive body' of the university, headed by rector  Bernhard  Eitel.  The rectorate consists of the chancellor,  Angela  Kalous, who is the head of the central administration and responsible for the university's budgeting, and three pro-rectors, who are responsible for international relations, teaching and communication, and research and structure respectively.

The  Senate is the 'legislative branch' of the university.  The rector and the members of the rectorate are senators ex officio, as are also the deans of the faculties, as well as the medical and managing directors of the  University  Hospital, and the university's equal opportunities officer.  Another 20 senators are elected for four-year terms, within the following quotas: eight university professors; four academic staff; four delegates of the student body; and four employees of the university administration.

The  University  Council is the advisory board to the aforementioned entities and encompasses, among others, the former  Israeli  Ambassador to  Germany  Avi  Primor, as well as CE Os of  German industries.

After a 2003 structural reformation, the university consists of 12 faculties, which in turn comprise several disciplines, departments, and institutes.  As a consequence of the  Bologna process, most faculties now offer  Bachelor's,  Master's, and  Ph.D. degrees to comply with the new  European degree standard.  Notable exceptions are the undergraduate programs in law, medicine, dentistry and pharmacy, from which students still graduate with the  State  Examination, a central examination at  Master's level held by the  State of  Baden-Württemberg.

The university has numerous partnerships nationally and internationally.  In particular, it maintains longstanding collaborations in research and education with the following independent research institutes located in and around  Heidelberg:

The university employs more than 15,000 academic staff, most of them are physicians engaged in the  University  Hospital.  As of 2008, the faculty encompasses 4,196 full-time staff, excluding visiting professors as well as graduate research and teaching assistants. 673 faculty members have been drawn from abroad.  Heidelberg  University also attracts more than 500 international scholars as visiting professors each academic year.  The university enrolls a total of 26,741 students, including 5,118 international students.  In addition there are 1,467 international exchange students at  Heidelberg. 23,636 students pursue taught degrees, 4,114 of whom are international students, and 919 are international exchange students. 3,105 students pursue a doctoral degree, including 1,004 international doctoral students and 15 international exchange students.  In 2007, the university awarded 994  Ph.D. degrees.

The academic year is divided into two semesters.  The winter semester runs from 1  October to 31  March and the summer semester from 1  April to 30  September.  Classes are held from mid- October to mid- February and mid- April to mid- July.  Students can generally begin their studies either in the winter or the summer semester.  However, there are several subjects students can begin only in the winter semester.  The standard time required to finish a  Bachelor's degree is principally six semesters, and a further four semesters for consecutive  Master's degrees.  The normal duration of  Ph.D. programmes for full-time students is 6 semesters.  The overall period of study for an undergraduate degree is divided into two parts: a period of basic study, lasting at least four semesters, at the end of which students must sit a formal examination, and a period of advanced study, lasting at least two semesters, after which students take their final examinations.

In the winter-semester 2006/2007, the university offered 3,926 places in undergraduate programs restricted by numerus clausus, with an overall acceptance rate of 16.3%.  Most selective are the undergraduate programs in clinical medicine, molecular biotechnology, political science, and law, with acceptance rates of 3.6%, 3.8%, 7.6% and 9.1% respectively.  The selection is exercised by allocating the best qualified applicants to a given number of places available in the respective discipline, thus depending primarily on the chosen subjects and the grade point average of the  Abitur or its equivalent.  For some majors and minors in humanities—particularly for conceptually non-vocational like classics and ancient history—unrestricted admission is granted under certain criteria (e.g., relevant language proficiency), as applications regularly do not exceed the number of places available.  For prospective international undergraduate students, a language test for  German—such as the DSH—is required.  Admission to consecutive  Master's programs always requires at least an undergraduate degree equivalent to the  German grade "good" (i.e., normally B+ in  American, or 2:1 in  British terms).  Except for the  Master's programs taught in  English, a language test for  German must be passed as well.  Ph.D. admission prerequisite is normally a strong  Master's-level degree, but specific admission procedures vary and cannot be generalized.  International applicants usually make up considerably more than 20% of the applicant pool and are considered individually by the merits achieved in their respective country of origin.

The  German state heavily subsidizes university study to keep higher education affordable regardless of socio-economic background.  From 2007 to 2012,  Heidelberg has charged tuition fees of approximately €1,200 p.a. for undergraduate, consecutive  Master's, and doctoral programs, for both EU and non-EU citizens, and for any subject area.  However, from spring term 2012 onwards, tuition fees have been abolished.  The usual housing costs for on-campus dormitories range from €2,200 to €3,000 p.a.

In the fiscal year 2005,  Heidelberg  University had an overall operating budget of approximately €856 M, consisting of approximately €413 M government funds, approximately €311 M basic budget, and approximately €132 M from external grants.  The university spent approximately €529 M in payroll costs and approximately €326 M in other expenditures.  Additionally, the university receives another €150 M in research grants, distributed over 5 years from 2012 onwards, due to the  German  Universities  Excellence  Initiative.  In the fiscal year 2007, the university for the first time raised approximately €19 M through tuition fees, exclusively to further improve the conditions of study.  Only approximately €9.5 M of these were spent at the end of the year and the rectorate had to urge the faculties to make use of their additional means.

Among historical scientific achievements of  Heidelberg researchers features prominently the invention of spectroscopy, and of the  Bunsen burner; the discovery of chemical elements  Caesium and  Rubidium; the identification of the absolute point of ebullition; and the identification and isolation of nicotine as the main pharmacologically active component of tobacco.  Modern scientific psychiatry; psychopharmacology; psychiatric genetics; environmental physics; and modern sociology were introduced as scientific disciplines by  Heidelberg faculty.  Almost 800 dwarf planets, the  North  America  Nebula, and the return of  Halley's  Comet have been discovered and documented at institutes of the  Heidelberg  Center for  Astronomy.  Moreover,  Heidelberg researchers invented the process of plastination to preserve body tissue, conducted the first successful transplantation of hematopoietic stem cells, and recently developed a new strategy for a vaccination against certain forms of cancer, which earned  Professor  Harald zur  Hausen of the university the  Nobel  Prize in  Physiology or  Medicine 2008.

The fossilised jawbone of an extinct relative of modern humans was discovered at  Mauer near  Heidelberg in 1907.  It was subsequently named  Homo heidelbergensis by  Professor  Otto  Schoetensack of the  University.

Today, the university puts an emphasis on natural sciences and medicine, but it retains its traditions with highly ranked faculties of humanities and social sciences.  The  Marsilius  Kolleg, named after  Marsilius of  Inghen, was established in 2007 as a  Center for  Advanced  Study to promote interdisciplinary dialogue and research especially between the sciences and the humanities.  Other institutes such as the  Interdisciplinary  Center for  Scientific  Computing, the  Interdisciplinary  Center for  Neurosciences, the  Heidelberg  Center for  American  Studies, and the  South  Asia  Institute also build a bridge between faculties and thus emphasize the concept of a comprehensive university.

Noted regular publications of the  Center for  Astronomy include the  Gliese catalogue of nearby stars, the fundamental catalogues FK5 and FK6 and the annual published  Apparent places, a high precision catalog with pre-calculated positions for over 3,000 stars for each day.  The  Heidelberg  Institute for  International  Conflict  Research publishes the annual  Conflict  Barometer, which describes the recent trends in global conflict developments, escalations, de-escalations, and settlements.  Regular publications by the  Max  Planck  Institute for  International  Law include the " Heidelberg  Journal for  International  Law", the " Max  Planck  Yearbook of  United  Nations  Law"; the " Journal of the  History of  International  Law"; the " Max  Planck  Encyclopedia of  Public  International  Law"; and the semi-annual bibliography " Public  International  Law".

The  German  Research  Foundation (DFG) currently funds twelve long-term  Collaborative  Research  Centers (SFB) with a duration of up to 12 years at  Heidelberg, four  Priority  Programs (SPP) with a duration of six years, two  Research  Units (FOR) with a duration of up to six years, as well as numerous individual projects at the university's faculties and institutes.  As a result of the  German  Universities  Excellence  Initiative, two  Clusters of  Excellence are funded with €6.5 M each - " Cellular  Networks:  From  Molecular  Mechanisms to  Quantitative  Understanding of  Complex  Functions", and " Asia and  Europe in a  Global  Context"

Heidelberg is a founding member of the  League of  European  Research  Universities, the  Coimbra  Group, and the  European  University  Association.  The university forms part of the  German- Japanese  University  Consortium  He KK Sa G On, and it participates in 7  European exchange schemes for researchers and students, such as ERASMUS.  Furthermore, it is actively involved in the development of the  German-speaking  Andrássy  University of  Budapest, and co-runs the school of  German law at the  Jagiellonian  University of  Kraków.  Beyond  Europe, the university and its faculties maintain specific agreements with 58 partner universities in  Africa, the  Americas,  Asia,  Australia and the  Russian  Federation.  In total, the  Higher  Education  Compass of the  German  Rector's  Conference lists staff and student exchange agreements as well as research cooperations with 236 universities worldwide.

The university offers a broad variety of athletics, such as teams in 16 different court sports from  American football to volleyball, courses in 11 different martial arts, 26 courses in physical fitness and body building, 9 courses in health sports from aquapower to yoga, and groups in 12 different dance styles.  Moreover, equestrian sports, sailing, rowing, skiing in the  French alps, track and field, swimming, fencing, cycling, acrobatics, gymnastics, and much more.  Most of the sports are free of charge.  Heidelberg's competition teams are particularly successful in soccer, volleyball, equestrian sports, judo, karate, track and field, and basketball.  The track and field team regularly achieves best placings at the  German university championships.  The  University  Sports  Club men's basketball team, USC  Heidelberg, is the championship record holder, won 13 national championships, and is the only university team playing at a professional level in the second division of  Germany's national league.

Moreover, the university supports a number of student groups in various fields of interest.  Among them are four drama clubs, the university orchestra  Collegium  Musicum, four choirs, six student media groups, six groups of international students, nine groups of political parties and NGO's, several departments of  European organizations of students in certain disciplines, four clubs dedicated to fostering international relations and cultural exchange, a chess club, a literature club, a debate society, two student management consulting groups, and four religious student groups.  Student unions structure themselves as " Studierendenrat" ( Student body council) as well as on department level.

Heidelberg's student newspaper "ruprecht" is — with editions of more than 10,000 copies — one of  Germany's largest student-run newspapers.  It was recently distinguished by the MLP  Pro  Campus  Press  Award as  Germany's best student newspaper.  The jury of journalists from major newspapers commended its "well balanced, though critical attitude" and its "simply great" layout that "suffices highest professional demands."  The ruprecht is financed entirely by advertising revenues, thus retaining independence from university management.  Some renowned journalists emerged from ruprecht's editorial board.  However, the critical online student newspaper U Ni MUT, which is run by the joint student council of the faculties, criticized the ruprecht often for being conformed, and exceedingly layout-oriented.  Heidelberg is also home of  Germany's oldest student law review  Heidelberg  Law  Review.  The journal is published quarterly, at the beginning and end of each semester break, and is circulated throughout all of  Germany.

Heidelberg hosts 34 student corporations, which were largely founded in the 19th century.  Corporations are to some extent comparable to the fraternities in the US.  As traditional symbols (couleur) corporation members wear colored caps and ribbons at ceremonial occasions ( Kommers) and some still practice the traditional academic fencing, a kind of duel, to "shape their members for the challenges of life."  In the 19th and early 20th century, corporations played an important role in  Germany's student life.  Today, however, corporations include only a relatively small number of students.  Their self-declared mission is to keep academic traditions alive and to create friendships for life.  The corporations' often representative 19th-century mansions are present throughout the  Old  Town.

Heidelberg is not least famous for its student night life.  Besides the various parties regularly organized by the student councils of the faculties, the semester opening and closing parties of the university, the dormitory parties, and the soirées of  Heidelberg's 34 student fraternities, the city, and the metropolitan area even more, offers night life for any taste and budget.  Adjacent to  University  Square is  Heidelberg's major night life district, where one pub is placed next to each other.  From  Thursday on, it is all night very crowded and full of atmosphere.  Moreover,  Heidelberg has five major discos.  The largest of them is located at the  New  Campus.  The city of  Mannheim, which is about three times as large as  Heidelberg, is a 15-minute train ride away, and offers an even more diverse night life, having a broad variety of clubs and bars well-frequented by both  Heidelberg's and  Mannheim's student community.

Alumni and faculty of the university include many founders and pioneers of academic disciplines, and a large number of internationally acclaimed philosophers, poets, jurisprudents, theologians, natural and social scientists. 56  Nobel  Laureates, at least 18  Leibniz  Laureates, and two " Oscar" winners have been associated with  Heidelberg  University.  Nine  Nobel  Laureates received the award during their tenure at  Heidelberg.

Besides several  Federal  Ministers of  Germany and  Prime  Ministers of  German  States, five  Chancellors of  Germany have attended the university, the latest being  Helmut  Kohl, the " Chancellor of the  Reunification".  Heads of  State or  Government of  Belgium,  Bulgaria,  Greece,  Nicaragua,  Serbia,  Thailand, a  British heir apparent, a  Secretary  General of NATO and a director of the  International  Peace  Bureau have also been educated at  Heidelberg; among them  Nobel  Peace  Laureates  Charles  Albert  Gobat and  Auguste  Beernaert.  Former university affiliates in the field of religion include  Pope  Pius II,  Cardinals,  Bishops, and with  Philipp  Melanchthon and  Zacharias  Ursinus two key leaders of  Protestant  Reformation.  Outstanding university affiliates in the legal profession include a  President of the  International  Court of  Justice, two  Presidents of the  European  Court of  Human  Rights, a  President of the  International  Tribunal for the  Law of the  Sea, a  Vice  President of the  International  Criminal  Court, an  Advocate  General at the  European  Court of  Justice, at least 16  Justices of the  Federal  Constitutional  Court of  Germany, a  President of the  Federal  Court of  Justice, a  President of the  Federal  Court of  Finance, a  President of the  Federal  Labor  Court, two  Attorney  Generals of  Germany, and a  British  Law  Lord.  In business,  Heidelberg alumni and faculty notably founded, co-founded or presided over ABB  Group;  Astor corporate enterprises; BASF; BDA;  Daimler AG;  Deutsche  Bank; EADS;  Krupp AG;  Siemens AG; and  Thyssen AG.

Alumni in the field of arts include classical composer  Robert  Schumann, philosophers  Ludwig  Feuerbach and  Edmund  Montgomery, poet  Joseph  Freiherr von  Eichendorff and writers  Christian  Friedrich  Hebbel,  Gottfried  Keller,  Irene  Frisch,  Heinrich  Hoffmann,  Sir  Muhammad  Iqbal,  José  Rizal, W.  Somerset  Maugham,  Jean  Paul,  Literature  Nobel  Laureate  Carl  Spitteler, and novelist  Jagoda  Marinić.  Amongst  Heidelberg alumni in other disciplines are the " Father of  Psychology"  Wilhelm  Wundt, the " Father of  Physical  Chemistry" J.  Willard  Gibbs, the " Father of  American  Anthropology"  Franz  Boas,  Dmitri  Mendeleev, who created the periodic table of elements, inventor of the two-wheeler principle  Karl  Drais,  Alfred  Wegener, who discovered the continental drift, as well as political theorist  Hannah  Arendt, gender theorist  Judith  Butler, political scientist  Carl  Joachim  Friedrich, and sociologists  Karl  Mannheim,  Robert E.  Park and  Talcott  Parsons.

Philosophers  Georg  Wilhelm  Friedrich  Hegel,  Karl  Jaspers,  Hans- Georg  Gadamer, and Jürgen  Habermas served as university professors, as did also the pioneering scientists  Hermann von  Helmholtz,  Robert  Wilhelm  Bunsen,  Gustav  Robert  Kirchhoff,  Emil  Kraepelin, the founder of scientific psychiatry, and outstanding social scientists such as  Max  Weber, the founding father of modern sociology.

Present faculty include  Medicine  Nobel  Laureates  Bert  Sakmann (1991) and  Harald zur  Hausen (2008),  Chemistry  Nobel  Laureate  Stefan  Hell (2014), 7  Leibniz  Laureates, former  Justice of the  Federal  Constitutional  Court of  Germany  Paul  Kirchhof, and Rüdiger  Wolfrum, the former  President of the  International  Tribunal for the  Law of the  Sea.

In 1880  Mark  Twain humorously detailed his impressions of  Heidelberg's student life in A  Tramp  Abroad.  He painted a picture of the university as a school for aristocrats, where students pursued a dandy's lifestyle, and described the great influence the student corporations exerted on the whole of  Heidelberg's student life.

In  William  Somerset  Maugham's 1915 masterpiece novel  Of  Human  Bondage, he described the one-year stay of the protagonist  Philip  Carey at  Heidelberg  University, in a largely autobiographical way.  Heidelberg also featured in the respective film versions of the novel, released in 1934 (starring  Leslie  Howard as  Philip, and  Bette  Davis as  Mildred), 1946 (with  Paul  Henreid and  Eleanor  Parker in the lead roles), and 1964 (with  Laurence  Harvey and  Kim  Novak in the lead roles).

The 1927 silent film  The  Student  Prince in  Old  Heidelberg, based on  Wilhelm  Meyer-Förster's play  Alt  Heidelberg (1903), starring  Ramón  Novarro and  Norma  Shearer, continued  Mark  Twain's image of  Heidelberg, showing the story of a  German prince who comes to  Heidelberg to study there, but falls in love with his innkeeper's daughter.  Having been very popular in the first half of the 20th century, it presents the typical student life of the 19th and early 20th century, and it is today considered a masterpiece of the late silent film era. MGM's 1954 color remake  The  Student  Prince, featuring the voice of  Mario  Lanza, is based on  Sigmund  Romberg's operetta version of the story.

E. C.  Gordon, the hero of  Robert  Heinlein's 1964 novel  Glory  Road, mentions his desire for a degree from  Heidelberg and the dueling scars to go with it.

The university is also featured in  Naoki  Urasawa's 1994–2001 manga series,  Monster, and its subsequent 2004–2005 anime adaptation, wherein it is featured as the university  Nina  Fortner ( Anna  Liebert) is attending to get her degree in law.  By the end of the series, despite the turmoil she's faced and her professor's initial displeasure at her consistent tardiness, she graduates with her degree.

In  Bernhard  Schlink's semi-autobiographical 1995 novel  The  Reader,  Heidelberg  University is one of the main scenes of  Part II.  Nearly a decade after his affair with an older woman came to a mysterious end,  Michael  Berg, a law student at the university, re-encounters his former lover as she defends herself in a war-crimes trial, which he observes as part of a seminar.  The university is also featured in the  Academy  Award-winning 2008 film version  The  Reader, starring  Kate  Winslet,  David  Kross and  Ralph  Fiennes.

In 2000, the university was the main scene of the award-winning  German thriller  Anatomy.  The medical student  Paula  Henning (played by  Franka  Potente) wins a scholarship for a summer course at the prestigious  Heidelberg  Medical  School.  When the body of a young man she met on the train turns up on her dissection table, she begins to investigate the mysterious circumstances surrounding his death, uncovering a gruesome conspiracy perpetrated by an antihippocratic secret society operating within the university.

The character  Sheldon  Cooper, from the CBS sitcom  The  Big  Bang  Theory, has referenced his studies at  Heidelberg  University, where he was a visiting professor before he received his first doctorate degree.The  University of  Hildesheim (in  German  Universität  Hildesheim) emerged from the  Teacher's  Training  University of  Lower  Saxony (founded in 1946).

The number of students enrolled has increased steadily since 2000 to approximately 7,500 in  Winter  Semester of 2015/16, of which 73 % are female.  Women also comprise 43 % of the faculty, above the national average.  Indeed, gender equality, and equal treatment for those from different social, ethnic and religious backgrounds, as well as educational integration in general, are important parts of the university's mission.

Interdisciplinary work, and narrowing the gap between theory and practice, are important components of the research and teaching profile.  Its educational studies programs as well as cultural studies and applied linguistics are the traditional strength.  In addition,  Psychology,  Childhood  Education,  Diversity  Education,  Translation  Studies,  Intercultural  Communication,  Environmental  Studies and  Business  Information/ Computer  Science programs are also in high demand.

Since 2003, the  University of  Hildesheim has been a foundation under public law, and therefore enjoys a comparatively high degree of autonomy.  Among other things, it can award professorships and approve its own construction projects.  Annual third-party funding has increased sevenfold since the foundation was created, and three major construction programs have followed ( Main  Campus,  Marienburg  Culture  Campus and Bühler  Campus), in addition to a number of other foundation projects and ten innovative endowed professorships.  As a public foundation, the  University of  Hildesheim maintains close relationships with civil society, and a strong network of affiliation with educational, scientific and cultural institutions, as well as economic and business organizations.

Students are active partners in the teaching and learning processes, and they are encouraged to be involved in the development and improvement of teaching and study.  Through its own scholarship programs (such as the  College of  Minerva and  Lore- Auerbach  Scholarships), the  University of  Hildesheim supports especially-capable and socially-committed students.  Moreover, regular course evaluations show that a majority of students are “mostly satisfied” or “very satisfied” with their courses, and students particularly appreciate the engagement and commitment of the faculty.  Accreditation reports have also noted the high level of teacher commitment and motivation among university faculty, as well as the personal atmosphere between students and professors.

The university currently has four divisions:The  University of  Hohenheim ( German:  Universität  Hohenheim) is a campus university located in the south of  Stuttgart,  Germany.  Founded in 1818 it is  Stuttgart's oldest university.  Its primary areas of specialisation had traditionally been agricultural and natural sciences,  Today, however, the majority of its students are enrolled in one of the many study programs offered by the faculty of business, economics and social sciences.  The faculty has regularly been ranked among the best in the country, making the  University of  Hohenheim one of  Germany's top-tier universities in these fields.  The university maintains academic alliances with a number of partner universities and is involved in numerous joint research projects.

From 1770 to 1794, the  Karlsschule was the only university in  Stuttgart.  Since its founding in 1818,  Stuttgart's oldest university has been the  University of  Hohenheim.  The eruption of the  Indonesian volcano  Mount  Tambora in 1815 triggered a global climate change and was one of the causes of the massive famine suffered in the  Kingdom of Württemberg at the beginning of the 19th century.  King  William I of Württemberg set up an  Agricultural  Academy in  Hohenheim to radically improve general nutrition in the kingdom through teaching, experimentation and demonstration in 1818 and, in so doing, laid the foundation for the  University of  Hohenheim.  At that time there were 18 students enrolled and a staff of three professors.  It is not connected to or affiliated with the  University of  Stuttgart (founded in 1829), although there is collaboration between the two.

The first director of the academy was  Johann  Nepomuk  Schwerz, and it was located in  Hohenheim  Palace, built by  Charles  Eugene,  Duke of Württemberg.

In 1847 the institution was designated as holding the rank of an " Academy of  Agriculture and  Forestry".  In 1904 the name was changed to " Agricultural  College".  Hohenheim  College was awarded the right to confer doctorates in 1918 and habilitations in 1919.  By appointing  Margarete von  Wrangell to the chair for plant nutrition in 1923, she became the first female full professor at a  German university.  During the period of national socialism, the university was brought into line with the party’s ideology and in 1945 it was forced to close.

Architecturally, the university that re-opened its doors in 1946 had survived  World  War II relatively undamaged.  In 1964 the faculties of  Agricultural  Sciences and  Natural  Sciences were created, followed in 1968 by the  Faculty of  Business,  Economics and  Social  Sciences.  Hohenheim has enjoyed university status since 1967 when it became known as  Universität  Hohenheim.

Today there are approximately 9,000 students and a teaching staff of around 900, of which slightly more than 100 are professors.  Over 2,000 people now work at the university.  The current rector of the university is the agricultural economist  Prof.  Dr.  Stephan  Dabbert (* June 23, 1958), who took office on  April 1, 2012.

The  University of  Hohenheim is located in southwest  Germany, in the district of  Plieningen on the southern rim of  Baden- Württemberg’s capital  Stuttgart.  It was named the most beautiful campus university in  Baden-Württemberg in 2009 and is generally acknowledged as having one of the most picturesque campuses in the country.  The baroque palace, the  University's emblem and its main building, is surrounded by historic parklands and botanical gardens, including the historic  Landesarboretum  Baden-Württemberg.  The campus is close to the light rail line U3 station  Plieningen  Garbe ( Stuttgart  Stadtbahn) and is within minutes from  Stuttgart airport,  Stuttgart  Exhibition  Center and major motorways.

The university currently pursues research in the fields of health, nutrition, agriculture, consumer protection and environmental protection, as well as economics and communication.

The university is active in academic alliances and is a member of both the ELLS and the HERMES university networks.

The  University of  Hohenheim was co-founder of the  Euroleague for  Life  Sciences (ELLS) which was established in 2001.  This university life sciences network presently includes the following members:

Main fields of co-operation in ELLS are:

The HERMES ( Higher  Education and  Research in  Management of  European  Universitie S) network is a strategic alliance of 18 leading  European universities in 11 countries.  Its goal is to offer dual degree programs in  Management on all academic levels:  Bachelor's,  Master's and  Doctoral studies.

The participating universities work closely together in defining their study programs, exchanging professors and organizing joint research projects.  Each year, this network holds an annual conference at one of the partner universities, where common programs are defined and achievements are reported.

The university’s museums are open to the general public.  Visitors can take a tour through the history of agriculture in the  German  Agricultural  Museum, which encompasses 5,700 sq.m. of covered exhibition space.  The  Zoological and  Veterinary  Museum has a collection of teaching aids and curiosities on display in a traditional exhibition in the palace.  Set in the  Exotic  Garden of the university, the  Hohenheim  History  Museum in the  Spielhaus tells the history of the municipality, the palace and the university.The university was established in 1558 and is counted among the ten oldest universities in  Germany.  It is affiliated with six  Nobel  Prize winners, most recently in 2000 when  Jena graduate  Herbert  Kroemer won the  Nobel  Prize for physics.  It was renamed after the poet  Friedrich  Schiller who was teaching as professor of philosophy when  Jena attracted some of the most influential minds at the turn of the 19th century.  With  Karl  Leonhard  Reinhold,  Johann  Gottlieb  Fichte, G. W. F.  Hegel, F. W. J.  Schelling and  Friedrich von  Schlegel on its teaching staff, the university has been at the centre of the emergence of  German idealism and early  Romanticism.

As of 2014 , the university has around 19,000 students enrolled and 375 professors.  Its current president,  Walter  Rosenthal[de], was elected in 2014 for a six-year term.

The university is organised into the following ten schools:

Elector  John  Frederick of  Saxony first thought of a plan to establish a university at  Jena upon  Saale in 1547 while he was being held captive by emperor  Charles V.  The plan was put into motion by his three sons and, after having obtained a charter from the  Emperor  Ferdinand I, the university was established on 2  February 1558.  The university, jointly maintained by the  Saxon  Duchies who derived from partitioning of  John  Frederick's duchy, was thus named  Ducal  Pan- Saxon  University ( German:  Herzoglich Sächsische  Gesamtuniversität) or  Salana (after the river  Saale).

Prior to the 20th century,  University enrollment peaked in the 18th century.  The university's reputation peaked under the auspices of  Duke  Charles  Augustus,  Goethe's patron (1787–1806), when  Gottlieb  Fichte, G. W. F.  Hegel,  Friedrich  Schelling,  Friedrich von  Schlegel and  Friedrich  Schiller were on its teaching staff.

Founded as a home for the new religious opinions of the sixteenth century, it has since been one of the most politically radical universities in  Germany.  Jena was noted among other  German universities at the time for allowing students to duel and to have a passion for  Freiheit, which were popularly regarded as the necessary characteristics of  German student life.  The  University of  Jena has preserved a historical detention room or  Karzer with famous caricatures by  Swiss painter  Martin  Disteli.

In the latter 19th century, the department of zoology taught evolutionary theory, with  Carl  Gegenbaur,  Ernst  Haeckel and others publishing detailed theories at the time of  Darwin's " Origin of  Species" (1858).  The later fame of  Ernst  Haeckel eclipsed  Darwin in some  European countries, as the term " Haeckelism" was more common than  Darwinism.

In 1905,  Jena had 1,100 students enrolled and its teaching staff (including  Privatdozenten) numbered 112.  Amongst its numerous auxiliaries then were the library, with 200,000 volumes; the observatory; the meteorological institute; the botanical garden; the seminaries of theology, philology, and education; and the well-equipped clinical, anatomical, and physical institutes.

After the end of the  Saxon duchies in 1918, and their merger with further principalities into the  Free  State of  Thuringia in 1920, the university was renamed as the  Thuringian  State  University ( Thüringische  Landesuniversität) in 1921.  In 1934 the university was renamed again, receiving its present name of  Friedrich  Schiller  University.  During the 20th century, the cooperation between  Zeiss corporation and the university brought new prosperity and attention to  Jena, resulting in a dramatic increase in funding and enrollment.

During the  Third  Reich, staunch  Nazis moved into leading position at the university.  The racial researcher and SS- Hauptscharführer  Karl  Astel was appointed professor in 1933, bypassing traditional qualifications and process; he later became rector of the  University in 1939.  Also in 1933, many professors had to leave the university as a consequence of the  Law for the  Restoration of the  Professional  Civil  Service.  Student fraternities - in particular the  Burschenschaften - were dissolved and incorporated into the  Nazi student federation.  The  Nazi student federation enjoyed before the transfer of power and won great support among the student body elections in  January 1933, achieving 49.3% of the vote, which represents the second best result.  Between the  Jena connections and the NS students wide-ranging human and ideological connections were recorded.

When the  Allied air raids to  Jena in  February and  March struck in 1945, the  University  Library, the  University main building and several clinics in the  Bachstraße received total or significant physical damage.  Completely destroyed were the  Botanical  Garden, the psychological and the physiological institute and three chemical  Institutes.  An important event for the  National  Socialist period was the investigation of the pediatrician  Yusuf  Ibrahim. A  Senate  Commission noted the participation of the physician to the "euthanasia" murders of physically or mentally disabled children.

In the 20th century the university was promoted through cooperation with  Carl  Zeiss (company) and also became thereby a mass university.  In 1905 the university had 1,100 students and 112 university teachers, so this figure has since been almost twenty-fold.  The  Thuringian  State  University is the only comprehensive university of the  Free  State.

Since 1995, there is a university association with the  Martin  Luther  University of  Halle- Wittenberg and the  University of  Leipzig.  The aim is firstly to give the students the opportunity to visit with relatively few problems at the partner universities and events in order to broaden the range of subjects and topics.  Currently e. g. has joined a cooperation in teaching in the field of bioinformatics.  In addition, the cooperation provides the university management the opportunity to share experiences with their regular meetings and initiate common projects.  So z. B. went from the successful bid to the  German  Centre for  Integrative  Biodiversity  Research (i Div) from the  University network.  The co-operation continues at other levels: for example in a joint mentoring program for female postdocs or in the central  German archives network.  And last but not least, there are common sports activities.

Since  October 2014, the pharmacologist  Walter  Rosenthal is the president of the  University;  Chancellor is since 2007 the mathematician  Klaus  Bartholmé.

Research at  Friedrich  Schiller  University traditionally focusses on both humanities and sciences.  In addition to the faculties the following " Collaborative  Research  Centres" ( German " Sonderforschungsbereich", short: "SFB") operate at the university:

In 2006 the research center,  Jena  Center -  History of the 20th century, was founded.  In 2007 the graduate school " Jena  School for  Microbial  Communication" (JSMC) was established within the  German  Universities  Excellence  Initiative.  In 2008 the  Center for  Molecular  Biomedicine (CMB) and the interdisciplinary research center  Laboratory of the  Enlightenment were developed as research institutions. 2014 the " Center of  Advanced  Research" (ZAF) was established.

Jena  University is one of the founder of  The  German  Centre for  Integrative  Biodiversity  Research (i Div)  Halle- Jena- Leipzig, that was founded in 2013.  It is a research centre of the  German  Research  Foundation (DFG).

Friedrich  Schiller  University is the only  German  University with a chair for gravitational theory and one for  Caucasus  Studies.

Among the collections which are open to the public are the  Phyletic  Museum, an institution which is unique in  Europe for illustrating the history of evolution, the  Ernst- Haeckel- Memorialmuseum, the  Mineralogical  Collection which traces its roots back to  Goethe and the second oldest  Botanical  Garden of  Middle  Europe.  The  Schiller  Gardenhouse and the  Goethe  Memorial at the  Botanical  Garden are reminders of the two towering geniuses of  Jena.  Both buildings are also open to the public.The  Karlsruhe  Institute of  Technology (KIT) ( German:  Karlsruher  Institut für  Technologie) is a public research university and one of the largest research and education institutions in  Germany.

KIT was created in 2009 when the  University of  Karlsruhe ( Universität  Karlsruhe), founded in 1825 as public research university and also known as " Fridericiana", merged with the  Karlsruhe  Research  Center  Forschungszentrum  Karlsruhe, which was originally established as a national nuclear research center ( Kernforschungszentrum  Karlsruhe, or  Kf K) in 1956.

KIT is one of the leading universities in the  Engineering and  Natural  Sciences in  Europe, ranking sixth overall in citation impact. KIT is a member of the TU9   German  Institutes of  Technology e.V.  As part of the  German  Universities  Excellence  Initiative KIT was accredited with the excellence status in 2006.  In the 2011 performance ranking of scientific papers,  Karlsruhe ranked first in  Germany and among the top ten universities in  Europe in engineering and natural sciences.

In the 2015 QS  World  University  Rankings the  Karlsruhe  Institute of  Technology achieved 93rd place in the global ranking across all disciplines and 62nd and 34th place in engineering and natural sciences, respectively.  In the 2013  Taiwan ranking, KIT (world rank 61) remained the best  German  University in the engineering and natural sciences, ranked in the engineering sciences ahead of the RWTH  Aachen (world rank 89), the  Technical  University of  Munich (world rank 94) and the  Technical  University of  Dresden (world rank 108).  For the natural sciences KIT (world rank 51) led the domestic comparison against the LMU  Munich (world rank 62), the  University of  Heidelberg (world rank 72) and the  Technical  University of  Munich (world rank 81).

The  University of  Karlsruhe was founded as  Polytechnische  Schule, a polytechnical school, on 7  October 1825.  It was modelled upon the École polytechnique in  Paris.  In 1865,  Grand  Duke  Friedrich I of  Baden raised the school to the status of a  Hochschule, an institution of higher education.  Since 1902 the university has also been known as the  Fridericiana in his honour.  In 1885, it was declared a  Technische  Hochschule, or institute of technology, and in 1967 it became an  Universität, a full university, which gave it the right to award regular doctorate degrees.  It had hitherto only been allowed to award doctorates in engineering, identified as  Dr.  Ing, a right bestowed on all technical institutes in 1899.

The  University of  Karlsruhe has been one of the leading  German institutions in computer science. A central computer laboratory was founded in 1966.  The department of informatics was established three years later, along with the first regular course in informatics.  On 2  August 1984, the university received  Germany's first email.  The  Institut für  Meteorologie und  Klimaforschung ( Institute for  Meteorology and  Climate  Research) was founded at the university in 1985.

The university also cooperated extensively with the  Forschungszentrum  Karlsruhe ( Karlsruhe  Research  Centre), and this relationship was formalised on 6  April 2006 when  Professor  Horst  Hippler and  Dr.  Dieter  Ertmann from the  University of  Karlsruhe, and  Professor  Manfred  Popp and  Assistant  Jur.  Sigurd  Lettow from  Forschungszentrum  Karlsruhe signed a contract for the foundation of the  Karlsruhe  Institute of  Technology (KIT).  The name was chosen in emulation of the  Massachusetts  Institute of  Technology (MIT), the leading technical university in the  United  States.  In  February 2008, the merger of the university and the research centre to form KIT was agreed by the state of  Baden-Württemberg and  Germany's federal government.  The necessary state law was passed on 8  July 2009. KIT was formally established on 1  October 2009.

The main reason for establishing KIT was to strengthen  Karlsruhe's position in the  German  Universities  Excellence  Initiative, which offered elite universities grants of up to 50 million euros per annum.  This aim was not achieved: while the  University of  Karlsruhe was chosen for the initiative in 2006/2007, KIT failed to secure a place in 2012.  It did, however, attract funds from other sources.  In 2008,  Hans- Werner  Hector, co-founder of SAP, raised 200 million euros to support researchers at the institute. ( Hector is the only founder of SAP who did not graduate from the  University of  Karlsruhe; he was given an honorary doctorate for his support of intellectually gifted children in 2003.)

Since the winter semester of 2008/2009, KIT has completed the change from the  Diplom system to a bachelor and master system.  Students already enrolled for a diplom degree when the transition began were allowed to finish their studies, but new students are only allowed to apply for a bachelor or master's degree.

Admission policies differ between departments.  While students are chosen by the quality of their school degree and their extracurricular activities for courses such as industrial engineering and management (27% of admissions in 2008), other departments do not preselect for their courses, including physics, informatics, and meteorology.  All courses require a minimum number of passed exams, called  Orientierungsprüfung or orientation assessment, in the first three semesters before students are allowed to complete their course. A substantial drop-out rate occurs for some engineering courses due to the immense study requirement to pass the prerequisites.

In the first semesters of a course, education tends to be theoretically oriented at KIT, with a high concentration of mathematics for engineering and natural science courses.  It is possible to choose between practical and theoretical topics in later semesters.

The university allows a broad range of education with the possibility of cross studies and work.  The studium generale ( English: general studies) was established in 1949, allowing students to attend lectures not directly pertaining their study field.

The  Zentrum für  Angewandte  Kulturwissenschaft und  Studium  Generale ( Centre for  Applied  Culture and  General  Studies) was founded in 1989 to support the students as a central institution for their interdisciplinary study.  Nowadays, it offers specialised qualifications in the fields of " Leadership and  Entrepreneurship", " Media -  Culture -  Communication", " Internationalisation and  Intercultural  Decision-making and  Responsibility", " Diversity  Management", and " European  Integration and  Identity  Studies", as well as the classical studium generale. A possibility for a concomitant study in applied culture science is given, as well.

In 1979, the  Interfakultatives  Institut für  Anwendungen der  Informatik ( Interfaculty  Institute for  Applications of  Informatics) was founded.  It brings together research in physics, mathematics, and engineering based on computer science.  Its mathematical pendant is the  Institut für  Wissenschaftliches  Rechnen und  Mathematische  Modellbildung ( Institute for  Scientific  Calculations and  Mathematical  Modelling).  Its aim is to enhance the exchange between mathematics and engineering in the fields of scientific calculations.

The  Interfakultatives  Institut für  Entrepreneurship ( Interfaculty  Institute for  Entrepreneurship) was established by SAP funding.  Its teaching professors were entrepreneurs on their own.  Before being shut down in 2010, the former professor was Götz  Werner, founder of dm-drogerie markt.

In 2001, the  Centre for  Functional  Nanostructures (CFN) was established.  It merges the fields of material sciences, biology, chemistry, engineering, and physics which are related to nano technology.  The CFN is one of the three  Exzellenzzentren ( English:  Excellence  Instituitions) of the  University of  Karlsruhe.  Another interdisciplinary institution is the  Centre for  Disaster  Management and  Risk  Reduction  Technology (CEDIM).

The  Karlsruhe  School of  Optics and  Photonics (KSOP) was established in 2006 as a publicly funded project by the  Deutsche  Forschungsgemeinschaft under the  German  Universities  Excellence  Initiative. KSOP was the first graduate school at the  University of  Karlsruhe and covers photonic materials and devices, advanced spectroscopy, biomedical photonics, optical systems and solar energy.  It is supported by several institutes and professors of the university.  It is also a partner in the EUROPHOTONICS consortium, which provides scholarship for master's degrees and  Ph D under the  European  Commission's prestigious  Erasmus  Mundus cooperation and mobility program.

KIT operates several TCCON stations as part of an international collaborative effort of measuring greenhouse gases globally.  One station is near campus.

KIT is one of the leading universities in the engineering and natural sciences in  Europe, ranking sixth overall in citation impact. KIT is a member of the TU9  German  Institutes of  Technology e.V.  As part of the  German  Universities  Excellence  Initiative KIT was accredited with the excellence status in 2006.  In the 2011 performance-ranking of scientific papers,  Karlsruhe ranked first in  Germany and among the top 10 universities in  Europe in engineering and natural sciences.  In the 2013 QS  World  University  Rankings, the  Karlsruhe  Institute of  Technology achieved 116th place in the global ranking across all disciplines and 33rd place in the engineering sciences.  In the 2013  Taiwan ranking, KIT leads as best  German university in the engineering and natural sciences.  As in 2012, KIT (world rank 61) remained ranked as the top university for engineering sciences in  Germany, before the RWTH  Aachen (world rank 89), the  Technical  University of  Munich (world rank 94) and the  Technical  University of  Dresden (world rank 108).  For the natural sciences, KIT (world rank 51) leads the domestic comparison against the LMU  Munich (world rank 62), the  University of  Heidelberg (world rank 72), and the  Technical  University of  Munich (world rank 81).

According to the  Ranking of  Scientific  Impact of  Leading  European  Research  Universities, an official document compiled by the  European  Commission,  Karlsruhe ranks second nationally and sixth in  Europe in terms of scholarly impact.

With the exception of the department of biology, this university receives more funding from the  Deutsche  Forschungsgemeinschaft than any other university specializing in the natural sciences in  Germany.  In the engineering sciences (computer science, electrical and mechanical engineering), the university is in the top three together with  University of  Stuttgart and the RWTH  Aachen.  It also consistently ranks top in the course industrial engineering and management, concerning the overall study situation, as well as popularity with employers.

More than 20% of its students are attracted from other nations and 0.6% of its students receive grants from the  German  Studienstiftung ( German  National  Academic  Foundation).  In 1998,  Science  Watch described its chemistry faculty as belonging to "the cream of the crop in chemistry" internationally.

In 2006, the  University of  Karlsruhe was chosen to be one of the first three universities with the best future concept within the scope of the  German  Universities  Excellence  Initiative.  These universities have been called "elite universities" in general public and media from that day on.

For many years, the department for  Computer  Science has been the number-one institution in this field in  Germany.  Hence, the  University of  Karlsruhe has established an international reputation.

In the 2012  Times  Higher  Education  World  University  Rankings, the university was ranked 151st in the world.

The  Campus  Nord ( English:  Campus  North), the former  Forschungszentrum was founded in 1956 as  Kernforschungszentrum  Karlsruhe ( Kf K) ( Karlsruhe  Nuclear  Research  Centre).  Initial activities concentrated around the  Forschungsreaktor 2 (FR2), the first nuclear reactor built by  Germany.  With the decline of nuclear energy activities in  Germany,  Kernforschungszentrum  Karlsruhe directed its work increasingly towards alternative areas of basic and applied sciences.  This change is reflected in the change of name from  Kernforschungszentrum  Karlsruhe to  Forschungszentrum  Karlsruhe with the subheading  Technik und  Umwelt (technology and environment) in 1995.  This subheading was replaced by in der  Helmholtz- Gemeinschaft in 2002.

The  Campus  Nord is the site of the main  German national nuclear engineering research centre and the  Institute for  Transuranium  Elements.  Also present on the site is a nanotechnology research centre and the neutrino experiment KATRIN.

There is further a 200 metre tall guyed mast for meteorological measurements at  Campus  Nord.

The  Steinbuch  Centre for  Computing (SCC), named after  Karl  Steinbuch, is the institution which was formed in 2008 out of the merging process between the main computer facilities of the  University of  Karlsruhe and the  Forschungszentrum  Karlsruhe.  It is responsible for the university's IP connectivity and provides central services ( Mail,  Web,  Campus management) for students and employees.  It supplies students with 10 fully equipped computer rooms, one professional print office and a wireless network over the whole campus area.  Some departments, like computer science, physics, and mathematics, run their own computer rooms as well.

The SCC runs some of the fastest computers in  Germany:

On 2  August 1984,  Michael  Rotert, a research fellow at  University of  Karlsruhe, received the first email ever sent to  Germany, at his address rotert%germany@csnet-relay.csnet.

The KIT  Library is the main library of KIT.  Its two branches on  Campus  South and  Campus  North provide literature for research and study for about 25,000 students and 8000 scientists with a widespread, interdisciplinary book stock of over 2 million volumes, reports and 28,000 periodicals in print and electronic form.  The emphasis of the collection lies on natural and engineering sciences.

The 24-hour library at  Campus  South was extended in 2006.  It became a 24-hour library with many working places and a relaxing area, and is now open around the clock.  The combination of a special book security system and an automated issue desk make it possible to use the 1000 workplaces anytime, day or night.  Current and contemporary literature is freely accessible in the four specialised reading rooms.  Each reading room provides cross-linked, modern and well-equipped study and work stations as well as printers, scanners and copy machines.

The research library at  Campus  North provides a large specialised book stock (especially reports and primary reports) on energy and nuclear energy.  The complete literature is freely accessible to the user.  Thirty modern workplaces, as well as printers, scanners, copy machines and cubicles for individual work are available.

Additional literature is located in the two specialised reading rooms for chemistry and physics, as well as in the  Library of the  University of  Applied  Sciences at  Campus  Moltkestrasse, which is administrated by the KIT  Library.  The faculty of physics, the faculty of mathematics, the faculty of computer science and the faculty of economics and management have got their own libraries to supply students and researchers with topic related literature.

The CIE is an entrepreneurial driven platform for students, scientist and alumni of the KIT and the region  Karlsruhe who are interested in starting a business.  The CIE platform is developing towards an entrepreneur club where entrepreneurs support each other to raise successful businesses.  Prospective entrepreneurs seek advise from the very first idea, how to develop business concepts and how to find co-workers.  Founded in 2008 by two alumni of the KIT, the CIE offers a wide portfolio of services including consulting and concept development.  The CIE also provides facilities like a  Start Up-office where new entrepreneur teams can work on their ideas.  All services are for free.  Entrepreneurs who benefit from the active club are asked to support the CIE financially and with own services.  As a project of the KIT, the CIE receives financial support from the  Federal  Ministry of  Economics and  Technology and the  European  Social  Fund.

Many departments cooperate, some are shared with the  Forschungszentrum  Karlsruhe.The  University of  Kassel ( German:  Universität  Kassel) is a university founded in 1971 located in  Kassel,  Hesse, in  Germany.  As of  October 2013 it had about 23,000 students and more than 2,600 staff, including 307 professors.

International summer universities, intensive  German language courses and orientation programmes for international students and students come from over 115 countries.

Each academic year, more than 100 visiting scholars pursue research projects in cooperation with colleagues from the  University of  Kassel, making a valuable contribution to the academic and cultural life.  The newly established  International  House is located on the campus.  It offers hostels for international guests and is available for meetings, conferences, and cultural events.

A wide range of undergraduate and postgraduate study programmes is offered in the following fields of study.  All study programmes are open to  German and international students alike. A range of degrees can be obtained, including the traditional  German  Diplom degrees, bachelor's and master's degrees, the  Artistic  Examination, or a  Doctorate:

Two  Academy  Awards (or  Oscar) in the area of animation films, plus three nominations, have so far been won by graduates from the  Kassel  School of  Arts.

Interdisciplinary research is a priority for the  University of  Kassel.  This includes research cooperation and dialogue with international research institutions, such as the  Fraunhofer  Society.  The interdisciplinary research centres and institutes include:

Scientists at the  Centre for  Environmental  Systems  Research at the  University of  Kassel have been investigating how  Germany can power itself entirely by renewable energy.

The library of the  University of  Kassel serves as a  Library of the  State of  Hesse (an important function in the  German system of libraries).  It was formed by merging the  Landesbibliothek (founded 1580 be  Landgraf  Wilhelm IV of  Hesse) and the  Murhardsche  Bibliothek (founded 1845 by the testament of scholar  Friedrich  Wilhelm  August  Murhard and his brother  Friedrich  Wilhelm  August  Murhard and opened 1905 as a city library).

A special focus of the library is the collection of early medieval manuscripts (over 10,000 in the collection) and early prints (mainly from the personal library of the  Landgrafen, who devoted themselves to natural history, natural philosophy, astronomy, astrology, and alchemy). A few of the most important items have been digitized.

The two most impressive items of the collection are the  Hildebrandslied (from c. 830) and the proof copy of the  Children's and  Household  Tales, the famous fairy tales of the  Brothers  Grimm (the  Kinder - und  Hausmärchen der  Gebrüder  Grimm) (1812/1815), an annotated copy that was chosen as part of the UNESCO  Memory of the  World in 2005.

The library holds an early medieval text preserved in a manuscript from c. 810 known as the  Kassel conversations (in  German:  Kasseler  Gespräche).The  University of  Kiel ( German:  Christian- Albrechts- Universität zu  Kiel, CAU) is a university in the city of  Kiel,  Germany.  It was founded in 1665 as the  Academia  Holsatorum  Chiloniensis by  Christian  Albert,  Duke of  Holstein- Gottorp and has approximately 24,000 students today.  The  University of  Kiel is the largest, oldest, and most prestigious in the state of  Schleswig- Holstein.  Until 1864/66 it was not only the northernmost university in  Germany but at the same time the 2nd largest university of  Denmark.

The  University of  Kiel was founded under the name  Christiana  Albertina on 5  October 1665 by  Christian  Albert,  Duke of  Holstein- Gottorp.  The citizens of the city of  Kiel were initially quite sceptical about the upcoming influx of students, thinking that these could be "quite a pest with their gluttony, heavy drinking and their questionable character" ( German: mit  Fressen,  Sauffen und allerley leichtfertigem  Wesen sehr ärgerlich seyn).  But those in the city who envisioned economic advantages of a university in the city won, and  Kiel thus became the northernmost university in the  German  Holy  Roman  Empire.

After 1773, when  Kiel had come under  Danish rule, the university began to thrive, and when  Kiel became part of  Prussia in the year 1867, the university grew rapidly in size.  The university opened one of the first botanical gardens in  Germany (now the  Alter  Botanischer  Garten  Kiel), and  Martin  Gropius designed many of the new buildings needed to teach the growing number of students.

The  Christiana  Albertina was one of the first  German universities to obey the  Gleichschaltung in 1933 and agreed to remove many professors and students from the school, for instance  Ferdinand Tönnies or  Felix  Jacoby.  During  World  War II, the  University of  Kiel suffered heavy damage, therefore it was later rebuilt at a different location with only a few of the older buildings housing the medical school.

There are several  Nobel  Prize  Winners affiliated with the  University of  Kiel, including:The  University of  Koblenz and  Landau ( German  Universität  Koblenz- Landau) is a university located in  Koblenz and  Landau,  Germany.  It was founded in 1990.

The  University of  Koblenz and  Landau is one of the youngest universities in  Germany.  It was transformed from a teachers' training college in 1990.  Since then, new  Departments and  Institutes have been founded, new  Degrees and  Chairs have been created, while at the same time existing courses and research interests have been expanded.  The university's academic profile today is marked by a combination of  Computer  Science and  Psychology together with the traditional  Departments of  Education, the  Humanities, and  Natural  Science.

Since 1990 the number of students has more than doubled.  There are now 12,915 students registered.  What makes  Koblenz and  Landau attractive as places to study is the wide range of courses and the orientation of these courses towards the practical world of work.

Research at  Koblenz and  Landau is above all oriented towards practical application.  The transfer of academic work through co-operation with partners from industry, commerce and administration is of great importance.  As a young university it has the necessary openness and flexibility to respond to the demand for work in the realms of research, development, consultancy, and provision of expert opinion.

The  University emphasizes further education and provides a number of graduate programmes and courses in this area with continual expansion.  Further education is the subject of numerous, usually interdisciplinary research projects.

A special feature of the  University of  Koblenz and  Landau is its structure.  Koblenz and  Landau are the locations for research, teaching, and further education.  The organising link between the two campuses is the  President's  Office in  Mainz, home of the university executive and the central university administration.The  University of  Konstanz ( German:  Universität  Konstanz) is a university in the city of  Konstanz in  Baden-Württemberg,  Germany.  It was founded in 1966, and the main campus on the  Gießberg was opened in 1972.  The  University is situated on the shore of  Lake  Constance just four kilometers from the  Swiss border.  As one of eleven  German  Excellence  Universities,  University of  Konstanz is consistently ranked among the global top 250 by the  Times  Higher  Education  World  University  Rankings .  In 2016 it was ranked 7th globally by the  Times  Higher  Education 150 under 50 rankings.  It is often referred to as "small  Harvard" by the  German media.

Over 10,000 students from close to 100 countries are enrolled at the university, while over 220 links to  European partner universities and numerous exchange programmes facilitate global networking.  Students may choose from more than 100 degree programs.  Moreover,  Konstanz  University cooperates with a large number of renowned universities such as  Johns  Hopkins  University,  Yale  University, the  University of  Chicago, UC  Berkeley and the  University of  Zurich.  Its library is open 24 hours a day and has more than two million books.

In 1965 the founding committee of the university developed the concept of a reform university with new forms of study and teaching, a central administration and central facilities for technology, computers and language training.  New forms of self-administration replaced traditional university structures.  In 1966 the university began its work in a wing of today's  Inselhotel, formerly a  Dominican monastery.  Professor  David  Daube,  Regius  Professor of  Civil  Law at the  University of  Oxford, gave the inaugural lectures.

The beginning was makeshift - in the middle of  Sonnenbühl on the edge of the town quarter  Petershausen on the right side of the  Rhine, with only a handful of professors and a few dozen students.  Starting in 1967, today's campus was developed through individual construction projects on the hill known as the  Gießberg.  Until today, the university has continued to be structurally altered and expanded.  In 2007 the  University joined the  German  Universities  Excellence  Initiative competition and succeeded in becoming  Germany's smallest and youngest  University of  Excellence.  The  University secured funding for its institutional strategy " Towards a  Culture of  Creativity", the graduate school " Chemical  Biology" as well as the cluster of excellence " Cultural  Foundations of  Integration".  This result was reconfirmed when the university succeeded in the second programme phase (2012-2017) with all projects and additionally was granted the " Graduate  School of  Decision  Sciences".

The campus is located on the  Gießberg, about 3 kilometres (1.9 mi) from the center of the city and comes with its own beach facing the  Lake  Constance.

The university was planned as a place of life and learning, in which new forms of research and teaching should be reflected in the architectural style.  Dense construction, short paths, the absence of large auditoriums in exchange for a large number of seminar rooms, as well as the variety of work, traffic, and quiet areas, are all part of the architectural concept.  In addition, there was the idea of creating lasting " Kunst am  Bau" (structural art) accents, so that the building of a desolate concrete landscape could be avoided in an effective manner.

These are the 3 faculties into which the university is divided:

The ranking results of various commonly referenced international rankings are shown below.

In the " Times  Higher  Education 150  Under 50  University  Rankings", the  University of  Konstanz achieved 7th position globally in 2016.  This position makes  Konstanz the best  German university amongst those assessed, all of which are under 50 years old.  This assessment was underscored by the 2014 edition of the global ranking "QS  Top 50 under 50", which also concentrates on universities under the age of 50.  In this case  Konstanz came 21st in the global comparison.The  University of Lübeck is a research university in  Northern  Germany which focuses almost entirely on medicine and sciences with applications in medicine.  In both 2006 and 2009, the  University of Lübeck was ranked  No. 1 in medicine among all universities in  Germany,  Austria and  Switzerland according to the CHE  Hochschulranking.  In  Computer  Science and  Molecular  Life  Science, the  University was ranked  No. 2 in the 2009 evaluation.

The university has a  Faculty of  Medicine and a  Faculty of  Technology and  Natural  Sciences.  It offers professional degrees and doctoral degrees (in particular, but not only,  Dr.med.) in medicine and  Bachelor,  Master and doctoral degrees in science and engineering disciplines with applications to medicine.  Further, in winter semester 2007/2008, the  Ph D programme " Computing in  Medicine and  Life  Sciences" was introduced with the establishment of the  Graduate  School for  Computing in  Medicine and  Life  Sciences at the university.

Currently, the university has around 3,500 students, 160  Professors and 100 lecturers.  In 2003 the affiliated teaching hospital of the  University of Lübeck was merged with that of the  University of  Kiel into the university teaching hospital of  Schleswig- Holstein, thus making the 2nd largest one in  Germany.  With a total number of staff over 5,300, the  University of Lübeck and its teaching hospital belong to the largest employer in the region of Lübeck.  Internationally, the university has partnerships and collaborations with  Katholieke  Universiteit  Leuven/ Belgium,  University of  Helsinki/ Finland and  Zhejiang  University/ Hangzhou/ China.The  Leuphana  University of Lüneburg is a public university located in Lüneburg,  Lower  Saxony,  Germany.  The  University of Lüneburg was founded in 1946 as a college of education (Pädagogische  Hochschule).  Leuphana established a unique university model within the  German academic landscape that has previously received several awards.  The university is designated as a 'foundation under public law'.

The name  Leuphana is derived from an ancient settlement on the  Elbe river, that was mentioned in the geographical world atlas by  Ptolemy in the 2nd century.

The  Leuphana  College concentrates its bachelor's degree studies into eight departments and two teacher training courses.  In 2008 a graduate college was opened that integrates master's degree and doctorate programmes.  In addition there is a pan-departmental research centre and a professional school for advanced study courses like business cooperation.

It was founded in  May 1946 as one of eight pädagogische  Hochschule in  Lower  Saxony, and was renamed in  May 1989 from Pädagogische  Hochschule  Lower  Saxony,  Abteilung Lüneburg to Lüneburg  University.

In 2009, the campus in  Suderburg was transferred to the  Fachhochschule  Braunschweig/ Wolfenbüttel.Leipzig  University ( German:  Universität  Leipzig), in  Leipzig in the  Free  State of  Saxony,  Germany, is one of the world's oldest universities and the second-oldest university (by consecutive years of existence) in  Germany.  Famous alumni include  Leibniz,  Goethe,  Ranke,  Nietzsche,  Wagner,  Angela  Merkel,  Raila  Odinga,  Tycho  Brahe, and nine  Nobel laureates are associated with the university.

The university was founded on  December 2, 1409 by  Frederick I,  Elector of  Saxony and his brother  William II,  Margrave of  Meissen, and originally comprised the four scholastic faculties.  Since its inception, the university has engaged in teaching and research for over 600 years without interruption.

The university was modelled on the  University of  Prague, from which the  German-speaking faculty members withdrew to  Leipzig after the  Jan  Hus crisis and the  Decree of  Kutná  Hora.  The  Alma mater  Lipsiensis opened in 1409, after it had been officially endorsed by  Pope  Alexander V in his  Bull of  Acknowledgment on ( September 9 of that year).  Its first rector was  Johann von Münsterberg.  From its foundation, the  Paulinerkirche served as the university church.  After the  Reformation, the church and the monastery buildings were donated to the university in 1544.

As many  European universities, the university of  Leipzig was structured into colleges ( Collegia) responsible for organising accommodation and collegiate lecturing.  Among the colleges of  Leipzig were the  Small  College, the  Large  College, the  Red  College (also known as the  New  College), the  College of our  Lady and the  Pauliner- College.  There were also private residential halls ( Bursen, see engl. bursaries).  The colleges had jurisdiction over their members.  The college structure was abandoned later [timeframe?] and today only the names survive.

During the first centuries, the university grew slowly and was a rather regional institution.  This changed, however, during the 19th century when the university became a world-class institution of higher education and research.  At the end of the 19th century, important scholars such as  Bernhard  Windscheid (one of the fathers of the  German  Civil  Code) and  Wilhelm  Ostwald (viewed as a founder of modern physical chemistry) taught at  Leipzig.

Leipzig  University was one of the first  German universities to allow women to register as "guest students".  At its general assembly in 1873, the  Allgemeiner  Deutscher  Frauenverein thanked the  University of  Leipzig and  Prague for allowing women to attend as guest students.  This was the year that the first woman in  Germany obtained her JD,  Johanna von  Evreinov.

Until the beginning of the  Second  World  War,  Leipzig  University attracted a number of renowned scholars and later  Nobel  Prize laureates, including  Paul  Ehrlich,  Felix  Bloch,  Werner  Heisenberg and  Sin- Itiro  Tomonaga.  Many of the university's alumni became important scientists.

Under  Nazi rule many  Jews' degrees were cancelled; some were later reinstated as  Karl- Marx  University degrees by the GDR.

The university was kept open throughout  World  War II, even after the destruction of its buildings.  During the war the acting rector,  Erich  Maschke, described the continuation of the university in a memo on  May 11, 1945, announcing the vote for a new rector:

By the end of the war 60 per cent of the university's buildings and 70 per cent of its books had been destroyed.

The university reopened after the war on  February 5, 1946, but it was affected by the uniformity imposed on social institutions in the  Soviet occupation zone.  In 1948 the freely elected student council was disbanded and replaced by  Free  German  Youth members.  The chairman of the  Student  Council,  Wolfgang  Natonek, and other members were arrested and imprisoned, but the university was also a nucleus of resistance.  Thus began the  Belter group, with flyers for free elections.  The head of the group,  Herbert  Belter, was executed in 1951 in  Moscow.  The  German  Democratic  Republic was created in 1949, and in 1953 the  University was renamed by its government the  Karl  Marx  University,  Leipzig after the  German communist philosopher  Karl  Marx.  In 1968, the partly damaged  Augusteum, including  Johanneum and  Albertinum and the intact  Paulinerkirche, were demolished to make way for a redevelopment of the university, carried out between 1973 and 1978.  The dominant building of the university was the  University  Tower (now  City- Hochhaus  Leipzig), built between 1968 and 1972 in the form of an open book.

In 1991, following the reunification of  Germany, the  University's name was restored to the original  Leipzig  University ( Alma mater lipsiensis).  The reconstruction of the  University  Library, which was heavily damaged during the war and in the GDR barely secured, was completed in 2002.

In 2008 the university was able to prevail in the nationwide " Initiative of  Excellence" of  Germany and it was granted the graduate school " Build Mo Na:  Leipzig  School of  Natural  Sciences –  Building with  Molecules and  Nano-objects".  In addition the university was able to receive grants from the  Saxon excellence initiative for the " Life" project – a project that tries to explore common diseases more effectively.  Also in 2008 the " Bach  Archive" was associated with the university.

With the delivery of the  University  Tower to a private user, the university was forced to spread some faculties over several locations in the city.  It controversially redesigned its historical centre at the  Augustusplatz.  In 2002,  Behet  Bonzio received the second prize in the architectural competition; a first prize was not awarded by the jury. A lobby with partial support of the provincial government called for the rebuilding of  St.  Paul's  Church and  Augusteum.  This caused the resistance of the university leadership, the majority of the students and population of  Leipzig.

These disputes led to a scandal in early 2003; the  Rector  Volker  Bigl, and the pro-rectors resigned in protest against the government.  This was exacerbated by severe tensions that built up because of the  Saxon university treaty on the future funding of higher education.  As a compromise a second competition was agreed upon, which only covered the  Augustusplatz front of the university.

On  March 24, 2004 a jury chose a design by  Dutch architect  Erick van  Egeraat, which was well received by almost all parties.  He recalls the outer form of the  St.  Paul's  Church and  Augusteum, and abstracted the original building complex.  Renovations began in the summer of 2005.

In 2009, the  Leipzig  University celebrated its 600th anniversary with over 300 scientific and cultural lectures and exhibitions, reflecting the role of the university's research and teaching from its beginning.

The  University  Library of  Leipzig was established in 1543.  It is one of the oldest  German university libraries and it serves as a source of literature and information for the  Leipzig  University as well as the general public in the region.  Its extensive historical and special collections are nationally and internationally recognized.  The library consists of the main building " Bibliotheca  Albertina" and forty branches situated near their respective academic institutions.  The current stock comprises 5 million volumes and about 7,700 periodicals.  Collections range from important medieval and modern manuscripts to incunabula, papyri, autographs, ostraka and coins.  The  Apel  Codex, a manuscript of 16th century music, is housed in the  Leipzig  University library, as well as the  Papyrus  Ebers.

The university's urban campus comprises several locations.  All in all, the university is spread across 38 locations in  Leipzig.  The main buildings in the city center are still located on the same land plots as the earliest university buildings in 1409.  The university's buildings in the center of  Leipzig underwent substantial reconstruction from 2005, the new university's main building being drafted by  Dutch architect  Erick van  Egeraat.  The estimated total cost for the renovation project is 140 million euros.  The new buildings were scheduled to be completed in 2009/2010, in time for the university's 600th anniversary celebrations.

Besides the faculties and other teaching institutions, several other bodies serve the university: the  University  Library, a university archive and administration, numerous museums (e.g. the  Museum for  Music  Instruments and the  Museum of  Ancient  Egypt) and the university hospital.  The university's  Leipzig  Botanical  Garden, the second-oldest botanical garden in  Europe. was established in 1542.  The  University's  Musical  Instrument  Museum includes one of the world's three surviving pianos built by  Bartolomeo  Cristofori, the piano's inventor.  Five other  Cristofori instruments are included in the  Museum's collections.

Today, the university has 14 faculties.  With over 29,000 students, it is  Saxony's second-largest university.  There are now more than 150 institutes and the university offers 190 study programs leading to  Bachelor's degrees,  Master's degrees,  Staatsexamen,  Diplom and  Ph.D.s, for which there are no charges for tuition.  The university offers a number of courses in  English and other foreign languages, and there are several programs allowing foreign students to study at the university.  Exchange partner universities include the universities of  Arizona,  Oklahoma,  Houston,  Alberta,  Ohio, and  Edinburgh.  Traditionally contacts to universities in  Eastern  Europe and the  Far  East are strong as well, e.g. there are cooperations with leading institutions such as  Moscow's  Lomonosov  University and  Renmin  University in  Beijing.

There are several  International  Master's programs:  American  Studies,  Global  Studies, SEPT (MBA in SME  Promotion) and one  Bachelor/ Master's/ Ph.D. program ( International  Physics  Studies  Program) taught in  English.  American  Studies  Leipzig was awarded three international professorships:  The  Fulbright- Leipzig  Chair for  American  Studies, the DAAD  Professorship for  American and  International  Studies, and the  Picador  Guest  Professorship for  Literature.  It is also the home of aspeers:emerging voices in american studies, a graduate-level peer-reviewed scholarly journal for  American studies.  Erasmus  Mundus  Global  Studies is an interdisciplinary, research-based  Master offered by a consortium of five  European universities:  Leipzig  University, the  London  School of  Economics,  University of  Vienna,  University of  Wroclaw and  Roskilde  University.  Since 2008 the university is also home to one of  Germany's few  Confucius  Institutes.  The  Institute is based on an agreement of  June 2006 between the university administration and representatives of the  Chinese  Embassy to establish a  Confucius  Institute in cooperation with the  Renmin  University and the " National  Office for  Teaching  Chinese as a  Foreign  Language".  Leipzig  University has been the home of the first  German chair for  Chinese and  East  Asian  Languages in the 19th century, which later became the  Institute of  East  Asian  Studies, which still exists today (see  Georg von der  Gabelentz).

The university is ranked second in  Germany, twentieth in  Europe, and 105th in the world by the web-based  Webometrics  Ranking of  World  Universities, a ranking evaluating universities' scientific online publications.  The 2010 ARWU- Ranking ranks the university in the 201–300 tier of world universities, and within the top 25 in  Germany.  The 2016 ARWU ranking sees  Leipzig climbing up to the 151-200 tier being among the top 14  German universities.  Leipzig has constantly been ranked among the  German top 10 in various university sport disciplines over the past decades.

The original four facilities were the  Faculty of  Arts,  Theology,  Medicine, and  Law.  Today, the university comprises the following 14 faculties:

The following institutes are affiliated with the university:

Leipzig has a thriving student life with a large number of student run bars, sports clubs and recreational facilities for students.  The student body in  Leipzig is diverse, not only due to the broad spectrum of subjects at the university but also because of the other higher education institutions in the city.  The  Moritzbastei is the largest student club in  Germany, it is part of the historic city fortifications of  Leipzig and is famous for its atmosphere and large number of cultural events.

The university is home to the  Leipzig  Academic  Orchestra and the  University  Choir of  Leipzig.  There are numerous courses offered in performing arts every semester and a dance festival is organised by students once a year.  In the field of sports, the university offers training opportunities and courses in almost all disciplines.  During the annual  Leipzig book fair, the university library and other university institutions organise public events for authors.

Leipzig  University has produced many notable individuals.  Some famous people affiliated with  Leipzig include:

The local campus radio station of the  University is "mephisto 97.6" and is receivable in the  Leipzig area on FM 97.6 M Hz and is also fed into the cable network of  Leipzig at 93.6 M Hz (both on a shared frequency with radio "R.SA").  It can be received  Monday to  Friday from 10 to 12am and 6 to 8pm.  Therefore, it can be received by over a million people in the broadcasting area.

In  March 2015,  Professor  Annette  Beck- Sickinger, the head of the biochemistry department at  Leipzig  University, caused anger in  India by allegedly rejecting an internship application from a male  Indian student as result of  India's 'culture of rape' and alluding to the existence of a growing  Europe-wide embargo on  Indian male students.[citation clutter]

The president of  Leipzig  University,  Professor  Beate  Schücking tried to explain away the incident by offering support for  Beck- Sickinger's apology:

Schücking played down the internship boycott as an isolated case.

On 9  March 2015,  The  German ambassador to  India,  Michael  Steiner, framed  Beck- Sickinger's opinions as oversimplified and discriminative.

On 11  March 2015, the BBC  World  Service revealed that  Beck- Sickinger had previously rejected a  Ph D candidate (who remains anonymous) in early 2014 and published excerpts:

Questioned by the BBC about the second set of e-mails,  Leipzig  University claimed that  Beck- Sickinger had deleted that particular email exchange, but continued to argue that  Beck- Sickinger never answered an application in that way.

Employment and racial discrimination is illegal under  German anti-discrimination legislation ( General  Equal  Treatment  Act of 2006,  Germany) and a possible violation of the  European  Convention on  Human  Rights.

The incident gained increased media attention after the appearance of e-mails sent by  Beck- Sickinger referencing an organized 'vigilante-style' embargo on  Indian male students by female professors in  Germany and other organizations in  Europe.

On the subject of the alleged embargo on male  Indian students,  Beck- Sickinger wrote:

She also explained the retaliatory nature of the boycott: “ Of course we cannot change or influence the  Indian society, but only take our consequences here in  Europe”.

Beck- Sickinger implied that a male  Indian student would put the female students of her research group at risk:

The incident made other students come forward and allege that they too had been victims of  Beck- Sickinger's 'vigilante' actions and had their internship applications rejected for similar reasons.

Social media called upon university authorities in  Germany to offer an unconditional apology and for action against the professor.  Widespread news coverage and television debates prompted suggestions that legal action be taken against the  Leipzig  University since the discriminatory e-mails were sent by  Beck- Sickinger in her capacity as a senior university official.[citation clutter]

The  University declined to publish e-mails between  Prof.  Dr.  Annette  Beck- Sickinger and the student from  India.  However, according to a statement released by the rector of the university,  Prof.  Dr.  Beate  Sc Hücking, the students council of the university was said to have had the opportunity to review all relevant e-mails.  The statement also restated that the student was declined for formal reasons.The  University of Münster ( German:  Westfälische  Wilhelms- Universität Münster, WWU) is a public university located in the city of Münster,  North  Rhine- Westphalia in  Germany.  The WWU is part of the  Deutsche  Forschungsgemeinschaft, a society of  Germany's leading research universities.  The WWU has also been successful in the  German government's  Excellence  Initiative.

With more than 43,000 students and over 120 fields of study in 15 departments, it is  Germany's fifth largest university and one of the foremost centers of  German intellectual life.  The university offers a wide range of subjects across the sciences, social sciences and the humanities.  Several courses are also taught in  English, including  Ph D programmes as well as postgraduate courses in geoinformatics, geospational technologies or information systems.

Professors and former students have won ten  Leibniz  Prizes, the most prestigious as well as the best-funded prize in  Europe, and one  Fields  Medal.

The university has its roots in the Münster's  Jesuit  College ( Jesuiten- Kolleg Münster), founded in 1588, and the convent of lay sisters  Liebfrauen-Überwasser, founded in 1040, of which it took its seal.  The convent was dissolved in 1773, so that its funds could be used to found the  University of Münster on 16  April 1780.

In 1631,  Pope  Urban VII and  Emperor  Ferdinand II issued privileges, allowing the establishment of a university in Münster.  However, due to a lack of funding, they were only put to use in 1780, when the modern  University of Münster was founded with four faculties:  Law,  Medicine,  Philosophy and  Theology.

In 1843, it was renamed to  Royal  Theological and  Philosophical  Academy (Königliche  Theologische und  Philosophische  Akademie), informally Münster  Academy ( Akademie Münster).

The ceremony of constitution was performed by  Franz  Freiherr von Fürstenberg.  The university received its current name from  Emperor  Wilhelm II on 22  August 1907.

1999 saw the beginning of the  Bologna  Process, which aimed to ensure comparability in the standards and quality of higher education qualifications.  The Münster  School of  Business  Administration and  Economics was the first one to establish bachelor's and master's degrees.

In the winter semester 2006/2007 nearly all studies have been changed according to  Bachelor/ Master system.  Exceptions are made in studies leading to the  Staatsexamen in medicine, dentistry, pharmacy and law.

The  University of Münster is member of the association  German U15 e.V. which is a coalition of fifteen major research-intensive and leading medical universities in  Germany with a full disciplinary spectrum, excluding any defining engineering sciences.  The  Leiden university ranking, ranks Münster as the third best  German university in the size-independent ranking.  Strong faculties include mathematics, chemistry, medicine and business studies.  According to the  Shanghai university ranking, the  University of Münster is the fourth best  German university for chemistry (46th best university for chemistry worldwide).  Two  Max- Planck- Prize and five  Gottfried- Wilhelm- Leibniz- Winner are currently professors at the faculty of mathematics. Münster has been successful with two excellence cluster " Cells in  Motion" and " Religion and  Politics" in the  German excellence initiative.

The central library of the university is the  Universitäts- und  Landesbibliothek Münster (ULB), which is also the regional library of  Westphalia.  As of 2011, the library owns more than 6.2 million volumes of which 2.68 million volumes are held in the ULB, while 3.53 million volumes are held by the 146 faculty and department libraries.  From those, 47,350 are electronical articles and newspapers.

The university offers a very active student life.  The university's sports club (" Hochschulsport") offers more than 100 sport courses, sport tours, further education and international tournaments.  The university's IT organization (" Zentrum für  Informationsverarbeitung" (ZIV)) provides central services for information processing and communication technology.  It offers IT facilities for the students with standard and special software.  Foreign languages can be learned at the university's language center (" Sprachenzentrum").  It offers traditional language courses, tandem courses (two persons with different native languages meet in order to learn from each other) and language certificates (for example UN Icert).  The cultural programme also includes various museums, music (choirs, ensembles, orchestra), theatres and cinemas.  Student organisations such as AIESEC, AEGEE, MOVE, MTP and many more are well represented with high membership.  The city of Münster itself has a very active night life with more than 1,000 bars and clubs.  As the city of the  Peace of  Westphalia, Münster also has a very rich cultural life.The  Otto-von- Guericke  University  Magdeburg ( German:  Otto-von- Guericke- Universität  Magdeburg, short  Ov GU) was founded in 1993 and is one of the youngest universities in  Germany.  The university in  Magdeburg has about 14,000 students in nine faculties.  There are 11,700 papers published in international journals from this institute.

It is named after the physicist (and mayor of  Magdeburg)  Otto von  Guericke, famous for his experiments with the  Magdeburg hemispheres.

The former  Technical  University  Magdeburg ( Technische  Hochschule  Magdeburg), a teacher training college and a medical school were absorbed into the university when it was created.  The university now composes nine faculties.

Raila  Odinga, a former  Prime  Minister of  Kenya, is an alumnus of the  Technical  University.  Professor  Dr.  Nguyen  Thien  Nhan,  Vietnam's current  Deputy  Prime  Minister and  Minister of  Education &  Training, is also an alumnus of the  Technical  University.  Dr.  Rumiana  Jeleva, former  Minister of  Foreign  Affairs of  Bulgaria (2009–2010), earned a  Ph D degree in sociology at the  Otto-von- Guericke  University  Magdeburg.

Magdeburg is the capital of  Saxony- Anhalt state in  Germany.  It is a moderately sized city located halfway between  Hannover and  Berlin.  The city is crossed by the river  Elbe on which bank the OVG university has its main structures.  One advantage in staying and studying in  Magdeburg is the simple and favourable living cost.  Public transportation in  Magdeburg is very advanced and free of use for the students of the university. A popular bar mile for the students is the  Hasselbachplatz.

IKUS is an inter-cultural association for international students.  It contributes the cultural synergy between the countries.  Students actively participate and celebrate cultural festivals frequently. A large number of foreign students organize the day for each country.

MIPS (=  Magdeburg  International  Ph D  Students) is the network for international  Ph D students at  Ov GU.  This association helps to create and enhance the contact between international  Ph D students in order to provide social and academic integration of young scientists. MIPS maintains support and advice in various areas, e.g. to learn about  Magdeburg and the  German language, to give information about scholarships and job opportunities.

Studentenwerk  Magdeburg is a student association which provides mensa and dormitories to the students.  There are more than 10 dormitories near or on the university's campus.The  Johannes  Gutenberg  University of  Mainz ( German:  Johannes  Gutenberg- Universität  Mainz) is a university in  Mainz,  Rhineland  Palatinate,  Germany, named after the printer  Johannes  Gutenberg.  With approximately 36,500 students (2014) in about 150 schools and clinics, it is among the ten largest universities in  Germany.  Starting on 1  January 2005 the university was reorganized into 11 faculties of study.

The university is considered one of the most prestigious universities in  Germany, especially in the natural sciences and economics.

The first  University of  Mainz goes back to the  Archbishop of  Mainz,  Prince-elector and  Reichserzkanzler  Adolf II von  Nassau.  At the time, establishing a university required papal approval and  Adolf II initiated the approval process during his time in office.  The university, however, was first opened in 1477 by  Adolf's successor to the bishopric,  Diether von  Isenburg.  In 1784 the  University was opened up for  Protestants and  Jews (curator  Anselm  Franz von  Betzel).  It fast became one of the largest  Catholic universities in  Europe with ten chairs in theology alone.  In the confusion after the establishment of the  Mainz  Republic of 1792 and its subsequent recapture by the  Prussians, academic activity came to a gradual standstill.  In 1798 the university became active again under  French governance, and lectures in the department of medicine took place until 1823.  Only the faculty of theology continued teaching during the 19th century, albeit as a theological  Seminary (since 1877 " College of  Philosophy and  Theology").

The current  Johannes  Gutenberg  University of  Mainz was founded in 1946 by the  French occupying power.  In a decree on 1  March the  French military government implied that the  University of  Mainz would continue to exist: the  University shall be "enabled to resume its function".  The remains of anti-aircraft warfare barracks erected in 1938 after the remilitarization of the  Rhineland during the  Third  Reich served as the university's first buildings and are still in use today.

The continuation of academic activity between the old university and  Johannes  Gutenberg  University of  Mainz, in spite of an interruption spanning over 100 years, is contested.  During the time up to its reopening only a seminary and midwifery college survived.

In 1972, the effect of the 1968 student protests began to take a toll on the  University's structure.  The departments ( Fakultaeten) were dismantled and the  University was organized into broad fields of study ( Fachbereiche).  Finally in 1974  Peter  Schneider was elected as the first president of what was now a "constituted group-university" institute of higher education.  In 1990 Jürgen Zöllner became  University  President yet spent only a year in the position after he was appointed  Minister for " Science and  Advanced  Education" for the  State of  Rhineland- Palatinate.  As the coordinator for the SPD's higher education policy, this furloughed professor from the  Institute for  Physiological  Chemistry played a decisive role in the SPD's higher education policy and in the development of  Study  Accounts.

Today the  Johannes  Gutenberg  University of  Mainz has approximately 36,000 students (as of 2010 ) and consists of over 150 institutions and clinics.

The range of studies is comprehensive; the university lacks some technical studies, veterinary medicine and nutrition science.  One can nonetheless study  History of books, athletics, music, visual arts, theatre, and film.

The  University of  Mainz does not currently levy fees or tuition ( Studiengebühren) for a regular course of study.  Senior citizen students, auditing students, and certain postgraduate students may be subject to fees.  The  Ministry for  Science and  Advanced  Education introduced "study accounts" ( Studienkonten) that were developed jointly with  Prof.  Zoellner.  During the transition period, overdrafts on the account would incur a flat-rate charge of 650  Euro for every overdrawn semester.  The  Study  Accounts allow for a free-of-charge initial course of study as long as it does not exceed 1.75 times the standard period of study.  In a second step the accounts will soon be charged according to time actually used.  It is still contested as to whether the enormous administrative burden will lead to an actual improvement of academic conditions. ** Measurable success is similar by the introduction of long-term tuition in other federal states and its effect on the decline of nominally enrolled students.

The  Johannes  Gutenberg  University of  Mainz is divided in ten departments since 1  September 2010.

Then there are the  Academy of  Music and the  Art  School, which are as independent art colleges of the  Johannes  Gutenberg  University of  Mainz. .

The  University of  Mainz is one of few campus-based universities in  Germany.  Nearly all its institutions and facilities are located on the site of a former barracks in the south west part of the city.  The university medical centre is located off campus, as is the  Department of  Applied  Linguistics and  Cultural  Sciences, which was integrated with the university in 1949 and is located in  Germersheim.  On campus next to the  University is the  Max  Planck  Institute for  Chemistry, the  Max  Planck  Institute for  Polymer  Research, the  Institute of  Molecular  Biology, the electron accelerator MAMI, the research reactor TRIGA, the botanical garden, a sports stadium and an indoor swimming pool.  Unique in the national higher-education landscape is the integration of the  Rhineland- Palatinate  Conservatory, the  Academy of  Visual  Arts and  College of  Athletics at one university.

Since 2007, the university started a web-TV program which also airs its video clips in  English.  The short videos (two to seven minutes) are specially made for students who are new to the city or university, and do offer information relevant to first-year students.  This web-TV is unique amongst  Germany's universities and can be viewed on a website that is run by students: ersti.tv.

One of the instruments carried by the  Mars  Exploration  Rovers  Spirit and  Opportunity, a miniature Mössbauer spectrometer, was developed at the university.

Among the notable alumni from the university of  Mainz are  German politicians  Rainer  Brüderle (FDP,  Federal  Minister for  Economics and  Technology);  Horst  Teltschik (former  Securitiy  Advisor of  Chancler  Helmut  Kohl and president of the  Munich  Conference on  Security  Policy);  Kristina  Schröder,  Federal  Minister of  Family and  Social  Affairs;  Franz  Josef  Jung (CDU,  Former  Federal  Minister of  Labor and  Social  Affairs and former  Federal  Minister of  Defence); particle physicist  Vera Lüth; sculptor  Karlheinz  Oswald; sports journalist Béla Réthy; political journalist  Peter  Scholl- Latour;  Dieter  Stolte, the former  General  Intendant of ZDF, the biggest television in  Europe; soprano  Elisabeth  Scholl; a founder of  American avant-garde cinema  Jonas  Mekas; his brother  Adolfas  Mekas, film director, writer and educator; mural artist  Rainer  Maria  Latzke; the  German climatologist  Wolfgang  Seiler;  Abbas  Zaryab, notable  Iranian scholar and historian; and  Srinivas  Kishanrao  Saidapur  Indian reproductive biologist.The  University of  Mannheim (in  German:  Universität  Mannheim), also known as UMA, is a public research university situated in  Mannheim,  Baden-Württemberg,  Germany.  Founded in 1967 the university has its origins in the 1763 established  Theodoro  Palatinae ( Palatine  Academy of the  Sciences  Mannheim), which was founded by the later  Duke of  Bavaria  Charles  Theodor, as well as the  Handelshochschule ( Commercial  College  Mannheim), which was initiated by  Mannheim's senior mayor  Otto  Beck and  Heidelberg's professor for  Economics  Eberhard  Gothein in 1907.

The  University offers a wide range of undergraduate and graduate programs as well as  Ph.D degrees within business administration, economics, law, social sciences, humanities, mathematics, computer science and information systems – all with an interdisciplinary and international focus.  The  University of  Mannheim's campus is located in the city center of  Mannheim and mainly centers on its main campus – the  Mannheim  Palace (completed in 1760).  The university has around 12,362 full-time students, 800 scholars enrolled, 840 academic staff and a total income of more than €120 million in 2016.  It is organized into 5 academic departments and 2 academic colleges.

The UMA is considered to have by far the best and most prestigious business school in  Germany and is consistently ranked #1 in national university rankings and among the top business schools worldwide for its business administration and economics programs.  Moreover, the university's programs for social sciences, politics as well as business informatics rank nationwide within the  Top 3 and its programs for law and computer science within the  Top 10.  The 2015 QS  World  University  Rankings ranked the UMA among the best one hundred universities within the disciplines of  Social  Sciences &  Management,  Accounting &  Finance,  Business  Administration &  Management and  Economics &  Econometrics, as well as among the  Top 50 universities within the discipline of  Political  Sciences.  Furthermore, the  University of  Mannheim is placed 83rd with regard to global employer reputation.  The THE world university ranking in 2016 ranked the  University of  Mannheim 102th worldwide.

The  University of  Mannheim is a member of the  German  Universities  Excellence  Initiative, the  International  Association of  Universities, the  European  Network for  Training  Economic  Research, the  International  Business  Education  Alliance (IBEA), the  Council on  Business &  Society, the  German  Research  Foundation (DFG), and it is accredited by the  European  Quality  Improvement  System (EQUIS), the  Association to  Advance  Collegiate  Schools of  Business (AACSB) as well as the  Association of MB As (AMBA).

The  University of  Mannheim has no clearly defined foundation date.  While the  University as it is known today was officially founded in 1967, its roots can be dated back to the 18th century established  Theodoro  Palatinae ( Palatine  Academy of the  Sciences  Mannheim) and the  Handelshochschule ( Commercial  College  Mannheim) that dates back to the beginning of the 20th century.  Mannheim's history is closely tied to the history of its main campus – the  Mannheim  Baroque  Palace.

The  Mannheim  Palace itself dates back to the early 18th century.  The city of  Mannheim, founded in 1606, was fortified and at the present site of the  Mannheim  Palace a fortress called  Friedrichsburg was located, sometimes serving as alternative residence for the  Elector, one of the most important territorial princes of the  Holy  Roman  Empire.  When  Elector  Palatine  Karl  Philip III. had confessional controversies with the inhabitants of his capital city  Heidelberg, he decided to appoint  Mannheim the  Palatinate's new capital in year 1720.

Karl  Philip III. decided subsequently to construct a new palace as his residence on the site of the old " Friedrichsburg".  In general, it was part of a trend among the  German princes to construct grand new residences in that era. The construction of the palace was commenced solemnly on 2  June 1720.  The overall building process was intended to cost about 300,000  Gulden, financed by an extraordinary "palace tax" ( Schlossbausteuer), but in the end, the palace cost totalled more than 2,000,000  Gulden and severely worsened the  Palatinate's financial situation.  The first administrative institutions began using the  Mannheim palace in 1725, but  Karl  Philip III. was able to transfer his court to the new residence only in 1731.

The final construction was not completed until 1760.  Karl  Philip died in 1742 and was succeeded by a distant relative, the young  Count  Palatine of  Sulzbach and later  Duke of  Bavaria  Charles  Theodor.  Under the initiative of the  Alsacian scholar  Johann  Daniel  Schöpflin and following the general acadamization movement in  Europe,  Prince  Charles  Theodor established the  Palatine  Academy of the  Sciences  Mannheim ( Kurpfälzische  Akademie der  Wissenschaften) on  October 17, 1763.  The so-called  Academia  Electoralis  Scientiarum et  Elegantiorum  Literarum  Theodoro- Palatinae, shortened " Theodoro  Palatinae" concentrated on the teaching of  Natural  Sciences and  History, and soon earned itself a reputation which reached far beyond the borders of  Charles  Theodor's realm.  In 1778, a second school was established at  Mannheim's palace – the  Commercial  School ( Großherzogliche  Handelsschule) – that served as school for merchant sons and which was later named into " Grand- Ducal  Commercial  Academy".  Further associated institutions included the  Mannheim  Observatory, the  Ducal  Natural  History  Collection, the  Ducal  Physical  Cabinet, the  Mannheim  Palace  Botanical  Garden and the in 1769 founded  Mannheim  Academy of  Fine  Arts.  The establishment of the  Theodoro- Palatinae had a strong cultural and educational policy link and intended to foster the sciences and arts in the  Palatinate.  Under  Charles  Theodor's reign the academy received enormous funding of more than 35,000,000  Gulden and contributed considerably to the cultural, economical and infrastructural development of  Southern  Germany during the second half of the eighteenth century.  Charles  Theodor developed  Mannheim into a  German centrum for  Arts and  Sciences.

Not only the palace, but also the city of  Mannheim saw their zenith during  Charles  Philipp's reign.  The glamour of the  Elector's court and  Mannheim's then famous cultural life lasted until 1778 when  Charles  Theodor became  Elector of  Bavaria by inheritance and moved his court to  Munich.  Things worsened further during the  Napoleonic  Wars, when  Mannheim was besieged.  During  Napoleon's reorganization of  Germany, the  Electorate of the  Palatinate was split up and  Mannheim became part of the  Grand  Duchy of  Electorate- Bavaria, thus losing its capital/residence status.  Although  Mannheim kept the title of "residence", the  Mannheim  Palace was used merely as accommodation for several administrative bodies.  In addition, the reorganization of the  Palatinate and  Bavaria made the  Bavarian  Academy of  Sciences and  Humanities a major concurrent for academic funding.  The consequences of religious strife, increased rivalry for funding and the  Napoleonic  Wars put an end to the " Theodoro- Palatinae", which was finally closed on  February 17, 1803 after forty years of existence.  Several years later in 1817, the " Grand- Ducal  Commercial  Academy" was closed as well.

For most of the 19th and early 20th centuries, the palace served no uniform purpose, being used as a representative building and a museum for the city.  Although there was no continuous existence of a scientific college in  Mannheim, the newly established  Handelshochschule  Mannheim, or  Municipal  Commercial  College  Mannheim, founded in 1907, saw itself in the tradition of  Carl  Theodor's earlier colleges.  The  Handelshochschule was founded under an initiative from  Mannheim's senior mayor  Otto  Beck (1846–1908) and the  Heidelberg's economics professor  Eberhard  Gothein (1853–1923).

Although the  Handelshochschule quickly developed into a well-known institution that conducted teaching and research in business administration, economics, pedagogy and psychology it suffered from financial hardship due to scarce financial resources.  Since 1932 there had been plans to merge the  Handelshochschule  Mannheim with the  Heidelberg  University, hence both solving the  School’s financial situation and supplementing the faculties at  Heidelberg with business, psychology and pedagogy departments; nevertheless until 1933 no final decision regarding the integration of the  Handelshochschule was made.  This situation changed in mid-1933 when the social democratic municipal administration of  Heidelberg and  Mannheim was banished and replaced by a national socialistic one that pushed the merging process forward.  In contrast to the initial plans featuring a full integration of the  Handelshochschule, the national socialistic administration preferred a partial integration only that includes to supplement  Heidelberg’s university with psychology and pedagogy institutes from the  Handelshochschule  Mannheim – in an aryanized outlay however.

Director of the  Handelshochschule since 1929 was  Otto  Selz, a  German philosopher and psychologist who is considered as being a pioneer of the cognitive sciences.  As a result of the merger plans and especially due to his jewish background  Selz was discharged on  April 6, 1933 following the  Badischen  Judenerlass administered by NSDAP politician  Robert  Heinrich  Wagner, a waiver designed to ban jewish academics from  German universities.  Later,  Selz was deported to the concentration camp  Auschwitz where he was executed in 1943; of the eleven docents at  Mannheim's  Handelshochschule that also possessed a jewish background nine shared  Selz's fate.  The merger process became more concrete in  June 1933 when  Heidelberg’s  Faculty for  Philosophy and the  University's  Psychiatric  Hospital discussed about the integration and allocation of  Mannheim’s psychology department and concluded that while  Heidelberg already has an academically strong psychiatric institution  Mannheim’s departments would be a very valuable supplement.  After several discussions and internal negotiations, both of  Heidelberg  University’s departments agreed on establishing a distinct  Psychological  Institute that fosters the clinical as well as the philosopical perspectives of psychology – hence, the  Handelshochschule built the foundation of  Heidelberg’s  Institute for  Psychology within the  Heidelberg  University  Faculty of  Behavioural  Sciences and  Empirical  Cultural  Sciences.  In  October 1933  Heidelberg university’s rectorate directed that students of the  Handelshochschule  Mannheim are allowed to continue their studies in  Heidelberg and on  October 25 a final meeting between  Mannheim and ministries under  Robert  Heinrich  Wagner was conducted to finalize the merger.  The final contract included the transfer of all assets of the  Handelshochschule to the  Heidelberg  University, the transfer of all existing institutes and collections to  Heidelberg as well as the relocation of the  Psychological  Institute of the from then on former  Handelshochschule  Mannheim to the basement rooms of the  Psychiatric  Hospital department at the  Heidelberg  University.  Only two weeks later the whole inventory and staff were transferred from  Mannheim to  Heidelberg – with this transfer the merging process was completed and the „jews released“  Handelshochschule  Mannheim finally closed.  While the institutes, collections and personnel had been transferred in 1933 the entire absorption process took until  April 1938.

Although the " Handelshochschule" was closed down in 1933, it built the foundation for what is today known as  University of  Mannheim.  In  World  War II,  Mannheim was heavily bombed from  December 1940 until the end of the war and saw more than 150 air raids.  The largest raid on  Mannheim took place on 5 and 6  September 1943 when a major part of the city was destroyed.  In 1944, raids bombed and widely devastated the  Mannheim  Palace, leaving only one room undamaged out of over 500 – only its external walls survived.  Many people supported demolishing it entirely after the war to create additional space for a more modern city architecture.  These plans were abolished and the palace was reconstructed instead.

In 1946, the " Handelshochschule" re-opened under its new name  Staatliche  Wirtschaftshochschule  Mannheim ( State  College for  Economics) with a student body of 545 students in the school's first year.  University of  Mannheim's official seal has its origins during the time of the re-opening of the  Handelshochschule.  The official seal of the  Trustees of the  Staatliche " Wirtschaftshochschule" served as the signature and symbol of authenticity on documents issued by the corporation. A request for one was first recorded in a meeting of the trustees in 1946 during which some of the  Trustees desired to get a  Common  Seal for the  Use of the  Corporation.  The seal's design was chosen to represent the strong connection between  Mannheim and the  University of  Mannheim and depicted the  Mannheim  Palace on top and the square-based outlay of  Mannheim's downtown below; surrounded by  In  Omnibus  Veritas, the  University's official motto in a shortened version. UMA's motto was based on a line in the constitution from  Carl  Theodor's  Palatine  Academy of the  Sciences  Mannheim from 1763,  In  Omnibus  Veritas  Suprema  Lex  Esto that could be translated into " Truth in everything should be the supreme law".  Ten years after its reopening, the " Staatliche  Wirtschafshochschule" finally moved into the east wing of the meanwhile rebuilt palace.  The other rooms of the old  Residence were occupied by government officials whose offices were still in ruins after the war.

In 1963, the " Staatliche  Wirtschafshochschule  Mannheim" extended its subject program faculties to a total of three –  Business  Administration and  Social  Sciences,  Philosophy- Philological  Sciences and  Law – and subsequently gained the status as "university" on  July, 4 in 1967.

Following the new status the council of ministers of the federal state of  Baden-Württemberg decided to rename the  State  College into the " University of  Mannheim" ( Universität  Mannheim).  The  University of  Mannheim experienced continuous growth in both recognition and size.  While there were only 3,150 students registered in 1967, the number of students tripled by the time of the mid-nineties counting more than 10,000 students.  In the winter term of 2013, the university's student body has reached its all-time high with more than 12,000 students.  During the growth phase of the  University in the 1960s and 1970s not only the number of students but also the number of faculties increased.  In 1969, the  University of  Mannheim expanded its faculty number to eight by adding the faculties of  Economics,  Geography and  Political  Sciences and by splitting the faculties of  Business  Administration and  Social  Sciences as well as  Philosophy- Philological  Sciences.

The emphasis at the  University of  Mannheim has always remained on business and economics, although teaching was broadened to further disciplines.  In 2000, the university received as first  German and third university in  Europe the accreditation by  Association to  Advance  Collegiate  Schools of  Business for its business administration faculty.  In the same year  Mannheim initiated the  Renaissance des  Barockschlosses ( Renaissance of the  Mannheim  Palace), a funding campaign aimed at raising funds for renovating and extending the main-campus.  This aim was reached in the financial year 2006–2007, raising €53 million.  In recent years, a policy referred to as "profile sharpening" ( Profilschärfung) has been introduced to lift the  University's reputation in its research clusters to a  European level.  The closing of majors such as geography (2002) and philosophy (2004) in the study program, due to this development back to the roots, has led to frequent complaints from the student council.  As one of the final steps in this transformation, the  University of  Mannheim has founded the  Mannheim  Business  School (MBS) in 2005 to offer executive education in  Germany.  As a result of the transformation process the organizational structure was restructured and the number of faculties was decreased to six.  Since 2007, the  University of  Mannheim is funded as the smallest university by the " Excellence  Initiative" under an initiative started by the  Federal  Ministry of  Education and  Research and the  German  Research  Foundation to promote cutting-edge research in  Germany and subsequently established  Germany's first graduate school, the  Mannheim  Graduate  School for  Economics and  Social  Sciences (GESS) in the same year.  In 2008, the  University passed a reformation statute to increase its cross-faculty collaboration and research and announced its profile as university with a strong focus on  Economics,  Business  Administration,  Social  Sciences,  Law,  Mathematics,  Computer  Science and  Humanities.

The  University of  Mannheim is located on an urban campus in the city of  Mannheim.  Mannheim is a city in southwestern part of  Germany and with approximately 315,000 inhabitants, the second-largest city in the state  Baden-Württemberg, directly after  Stuttgart.  Mannheim is situated in the  Rhine  Neckar  Triangle, a  European metropolitan area with approximately 2.4 million people living there, comprising the neighboring cities of  Mannheim,  Ludwigshafen and  Heidelberg, and a number of smaller towns in the perimeter.  Mannheim is located at the confluence of the  Rhine and the  Neckar in the northwestern corner of  Baden-Württemberg.  The  Rhine separates  Mannheim from the city of  Ludwigshafen, just to the west of it in  Rhineland- Palatinate, and the border of  Baden-Württemberg with  Hesse is just to the north.  Mannheim is downstream along the  Neckar from the city of  Heidelberg.  Mannheim is unusual among  German cities in that its streets and avenues are laid out in a grid pattern, leading to its nickname die  Quadratestadt ("city of the squares").  Its pedestrian zone is a shopping and night life magnet for the surrounding area and beyond.  Mannheim is about 30 minutes by train away from  Frankfurt am  Main and the  Frankfurt  International  Airport, 40 minutes from  Karlsruhe and its  Baden  Airpark as well as one hour by train from  Stuttgart and the  Stuttgart  Airport.  Mannheim is well connected to  Berlin and  Hamburg, which can be reached within one hour by plane from  Mannheim  City  Airport.  Mannheim's city centers on the eighteenth century  Mannheim  Palace, the former home of the  Prince-elector of the  Palatinate, that now houses the  University of  Mannheim.

The  University of  Mannheim belongs to the small group of universities in  Germany that are said to maintain a classical university campus, widely comparable to those of universities in the  United  States and the  United  Kingdom.  All faculties, research institutes and facilities are placed in very short distances to one another and are reachable by feet.  The present core campus covers over 74 acres (0.79 km²) in a contiguous area of  Mannheim's downtown district; the older heart of the campus and core building comprises the  Mannheim  Palace.  With a total length of more than 400 meters it is the largest baroque palace in  Germany.  The palace dates from the 18th century with its  Construction commenced solemnly on  June 2, 1720.  Although the construction was not completed before 1760, it was used by first administrative institutions since 1725.  In  World  War II, the palace was heavily bombed and partly destroyed.  Many residents supported demolishing it after the war to create space for a more modern city architecture.  Nevertheless, these plans were abolished and in recent years, the palace has been renovated extensively thanks to private donations and government funding totaling more than  Euro 54 million.  There was considerable building activity in the palace due to  Mannheim's anniversary in 2007, when the palace has been repainted in a bright ocher/yellow, the  Mittelbau been thoroughly rebuilt (including its new roof construction), and the  Ehrenhof yard been restructured and paved with granite.  In 2012,  Mannheim's campus was listed the most beautiful in  Germany.

Several of the  University's buildings, mainly the  Palace itself, were constructed in the  Baroque architecture style from 1650 to the end of the 18th century.  Much of the campus, predominantly the  Mannheim  Palace was designed by  Louis  Remy de la  Fosse and  Johann  Kaspar  Herwarthel, a prominent architects and the chief court designer of  Charles III  Philip.  Modern steel and glass elements were integrated and now contrast to the almost 300-year-old walls.  The city center of  Mannheim is aligned symmetrically to the palace.  The site of the palace is impressive, although the construction of roads and railway tracks has diminished its dominating appearance.  To the southwest,  Mannheim's main campus faces the river  Rhine and the adjacent city  Ludwigshafen.  To the northeast the  University's main campus, the palace, presents its 450 m long front to the  Mannheim city centre.  The  Breite  Straße runs from the palace to  Mannheim's central square, the  Paradeplatz.

The central part of the palace represents the  Mittelbau which incorporated the representative halls of the  Prince- Elector.  Today, the  Mittelbau holds university library halls and the  Rittersaal hall ( Great  Hall).  Furthermore, a palace museum was opened in 2007.  The  Mittelbau is flanked by the  Ehrenhof  West and  Ehrenhof  Ost wings, which include the large  Ehrenhof central yard in front of the  Mittelbau.  In those two wings, there are mainly lecture halls and offices of the university's humanities sections.  Below the  Ehrenhof, there is a massive bunker complex dating from  World  War II.  Initially constructed as defensive military fortification designed to protect up to 1,500 residents or valued materials from  Russian and  Allied bombing attacks, it served as a hotel with a capacity for up to 65 guests after the war and is used as occasional exposition space for modern and urban art today, e.g. during the  Long  Night of  Museums in  Mannheim.  The  Northern wing of the  Palace includes the impressive  Schlosskirche ( Palace  Church) and houses the  Department of  Law as well as  Mannheim's  Amtsgericht ( Lower  District  Court).  The  Southern/ Eastern wing is much larger than the northern one by including the popular  Schneckenhof yard, which is a well-known event ground in  Mannheim, and by holding the majority of the university's central institutions, as well as the largest lecture halls and the central library " Hasso  Plattner  Library".  Two sculptures are located on the central courtyard and represent the two founders of the  Mannheim  Palace  Charles III  Philip,  Elector  Palatine and  Charles  Theodore,  Elector of  Bavaria.

Over the next two years until 2017, a new study and conference center will be built in the west wing of the courtyard.  The new construction will be built in the disused boiler facilities and coal cellar of the  Palace.  The study and conference center will feature two semicircular lecture halls, an additional flexible-use conference area, ten breakout rooms and a large foyer that faces the palace garden at the back of the west wing with a large glass façade.

Besides the palace the university maintains several building in direct or close distance to the main campus.  All disciplines which are not housed in the palace are within a few minutes' walking distance.  They either have new buildings, like the  Department of  Economics and the  Institute of  Computer  Science, or, like the  Faculty of  Social  Sciences, are housed in renovated buildings.  In 2012, the university and the state  Baden-Württemberg has decided to provide the university with several new buildings located in the city quadrates of A5 and B6, which will create a second smaller campus in close neighborhood of the  Mannheim palace.  The additional area added to  Mannheim's campus will be more than 5,100 square meters.  The building complex will house parts of the  Mannheim  Graduate  School GESS, economic research facilities and additional lecture halls.

Contemporary campus landmarks include the  Mannheim  Jesuit  Church, the  Mannheim  Observatory, the original  Antikensammlung within the  Mannheim  Palace, the  Anna  Hoelzel  Memorial, the  Mannheim  Palace  Church, the  Centre for  European  Economic  Research, the  Palais  Bretzenheim, the  Landgericht  Mannheim (district court) and the  Mannheim  Schneckenhof.

The  University of  Mannheim is cooperatedly administrated by the  Rectorate, which comprises the  Rector (or  President), three extraofficial  Pro- Rectors ( Vice  Presidents) and the  Chancellor.  The rectorate is recognized as the 'executive body' of the university.  Its main task is to implement the strategic aims concluded by the  University  Council.  Since  October 2012 the UMA is headed by rector  Ernst- Ludwig von  Thadden.  The rectorate further consists of the chancellor,  Susann- Annette  Storm, who is the head of the central administration, the three pro-rectors,  Eva  Eckkrammer,  Thomas  Puhl and  Thorsten  Meiser who are responsible for international relations, teaching and communication as well as research and structure respectively.  In addition, the  Communication &  Fundraising  Department is also part of the rectorate and represents the interface between the  University and the public.

The  Senate is the "legislative branch" of the university.  The rector and the members of the rectorate are senators ex officio, as are also the deans of the faculties.  Another 18 senators are elected for four-year terms, within the following quotas: nine university professors; three academic staff; three delegates of the student body; and three employees of the university administration.  The  University  Council is the advisory board to the aforementioned entities and encompasses, among others, the director of the  Max  Planck  Institute  Martin  Hellwig, as well as CE Os of  German industries.

The rector is the administrative head of UMA and in its chief executive officer, responsible for executive management, representation and leadership on academic issues.  The rector reports to and is accountable to the  Council.  The university’s current rector is  Ernst- Ludwig von  Thadden.

University of  Mannheim is organized as a public, government, nonsectarian institution of higher education.  Its official corporate name is " Universität  Mannheim".  Mannheim's academic activity is organized into "schools", or "faculties" ( Fakultäten).  Currently, the  University of  Mannheim has five official faculties and two academic graduate colleges:  The  Mannheim  Business  School (MBS) and  Graduate  School for  Economics and  Social  Sciences (GESS).  At the  Mannheim  Palace campus, the faculty for business administration, which dates back to the 1969, is the largest faculty with about 4,000 students enrolled, 37 professors, 150 additional academic staff and 37 chairs.  The  University comprises five schools: the  Business  School, the  School of  Law and  Economics, the  School of  Social  Sciences, the  School of  Humanities and the  School of  Mathematics and  Computer  Science.  All the schools are closely interconnected in order to foster an academic and scientific exchange between the different subjects.

The  Allgemeiner  Studierendenausschuss of the  University of  Mannheim (A St A) is the student government for  University of  Mannheim students and all registered students are members.  Its elected leadership consists of the  Senate elected by both undergraduate, graduate and postgraduate students, and the  President and  Vice  President elected as a ticket by the entire student body. A St A's task is representing student interests vis-à-vis the university administration and the senate.

The  University of  Mannheim  Business  School is the undergraduate and graduate business school of the  University of  Mannheim.  The  School awards  Bachelor of  Business  Administration,  Master of  Management (MMM), and  Ph.D. degrees.  As the first  German institution, the  Business  School of the  University of  Mannheim has gained the " Triple  Crown" ( Triple accreditation):  It is accredited by AACSB  International, the  Association of MB As (AMBA) and EFMD (EQUIS).  With 37 chaired professors and about 4,000 students, the  Business  School ranks among the largest in  Europe.

The undergraduate business degree has the most developed integrated international exchange program in  Germany, with a mandatory exchange term during the third year and more than 95% of third-year class students participating.  Students generally study for one semester abroad at one of more than 400 highly respected partner schools in more than 50 countries, for instance:  Mc Gill  University, HEC  Paris,  University of  Hong  Kong,  National  University of  Singapore, and  University of  Miami.  Instead of the exchange term, the program exceptionally allows students to have a further semester at  Mannheim with a special curriculum focusing on international course load and business ethics.

Besides the strong international outlay due to the integrated exchange semester, internationality and cross-cultural learning is emphasized by obligatory language tracks in the course curriculum ( Chinese,  Japanese,  Spanish,  Russian,  Korean or  Portuguese tracks possible) and 70% of courses held in  English.

At graduate level the " Mannheim  Master of  Management (MMM)" offers an entirely open course curriculum that allows students to choose courses according to their own wishes.  The MMM can thus be converted to a  Master of  Finance,  Master of  Accounting,  Master of  Marketing etc.  The range of available courses include all business related subjects and interdisciplinary courses, such  Corporate  Finance and  Banking,  Marketing,  Entrepreneurship,  Strategic  Management,  Operations  Research or  Information  Systems, and many more.  Furthermore, students can select courses out of the  Economics,  Sociology and  Humanities departments.

Several double degree graduate programs with renowned institutions such as the  Queen's  University, ESSEC  Business  School  Paris,  Bocconi  University,  Copenhagen  Business  School,  University of  South  Carolina are available and enable the students to pursue two master's degrees at the same time.  International exchange programs, comparable to those at undergraduate level (while not mandatory), also allow for cross-cultural cooperation and learning.  Usually more than 40% of the MMM classes each year choose to participate in one of those programs.

On-campus recruiters include companies like  Credit  Suisse,  Bertelsmann, JP  Morgan,  Porsche,  Morgan  Stanley,  Volkswagen,  Goldman  Sachs,  Mc Kinsey &  Co.,  Deutsche  Bank,  Samsung,  Reckitt  Benckiser,  Bain &  Company,  Boston  Consulting  Group,  Merck K Ga A,  Oliver  Wyman, P&G,  Pricewaterhouse Coopers,  Deloitte,  Ernst &  Young, KPMG, and many more.

Eighteen full professors, their staff and numerous renowned associate lecturers research and teach at the  Department of  Law.  The  Department of  Law is home to several important institutes and programs (e.g. the institute for company law ( Institut für  Unternehmensrecht (IURUM)), the institute for insurance law ( Institut für  Versicherungswissenschaft) or the centre for the law of bankruptcy law ( Zentrum für  Insolvenz und  Sanierung (ZIS)).

The department of law places clear emphasis on the fields of commercial and business law.  Close ties to legal and business practice, combined with an interdisciplinary profile in the economic sciences, are hallmarks of the  Department of  Law.

Mannheim's  Law school is the first law school in  Germany to introduce a modern  Bachelor of  Law study program, the so-called " Bachelor  Unternehmensjurist", while maintaining the high standards of the legal  State  Examination system.  The programme combines modules from the  Department of  Law (thematic priority on business law) and the  Business  School (thematic priority human resources or tax and accounting).  It enables students to study law and business simultaneously and ends after 6 semesters (3 years) with a bachelor's degree.  It is the first bachelor's degree in  Germany which can be followed up with a master's (graduate) programme in business, a master's (graduate) programme of law or the  German state examination in law ( Staatsexamen) ( German government licensing examination).

More than twenty full-time senior faculty members and 21 assistant professors and numerous lecturers are engaged in a variety of research projects at the frontiers of their fields, ranging from micro- and macroeconomics, econometrics, labour economics, industrial organization, financial economics, auctions and game theory, policy analysis and evaluation to economic history and international trade.  The department has special expertise in microeconomic specializations and econometrics, both in theory and application.  Its research programmes are aided by large institutional grants from the  German  National  Science  Foundation (DFG); additional funds are obtained from other public and private institutions.  The department owns a library collection of more than 350,000 volumes in  German as well as other languages (mostly  English) and subscribes to 400 journals.

The  Department of  Economics of the  University of  Mannheim is ranked 1st in  Germany and is ranked as the best and most research intensive department among all  German-speaking countries.  Furthermore, the 2013  Economics  Ranking of  Handelsblatt ranks 6 professors of  Mannheim's department among the world's 100 most influential researchers in  Economics.  The department maintains close partnerships and exchange agreements with universities like  Yale  University,  University of  California,  Berkeley or the  Warwick  University.

The  School of  Social  Sciences comprises the fields of political science, sociology and psychology with an academic staff of 36 professors and 150 additional scientists.  The social sciences at the  University of  Mannheim have an excellent international reputation, reflected by rankings, awards and third-party funds.  The faculty is well-known for its empirical-analytical orientation and its focus on  Europe.

The  Department of  Sociology at the  School of  Social  Sciences is renowned for its strength in empirical and analytical research, and for using innovative quantitative techniques in its research design.

The  Department's main areas of focus in research and teaching consist of  Sociological  Theory,  Comparative  Sociology,  Stratification  Research,  Economic  Sociology,  Social  Psychology, and  Quantitative  Research methods.  The department maintains close cooperation with the  Mannheim  Centre for  European  Social  Research (MZES) and the  Leibniz  Institute for  Social  Research (GESIS).  Since 2014 the  Mannheim  School of  Social  Sciences is the first and only  European partner institution of the EITM  Summer  Institutes and provides advancing theoretical and empirical research training in form of a summer school to scholars, together with its US partners  Princeton  University,  Harvard  University,  University of  Michigan,  University of  Chicago,  Duke  University,  Washington  University and the  National  Science  Foundation.

The  Department of  Psychology has developed into one of the leading research and teaching institutions in  Germany, focusing mainly on the research areas of  Industrial and  Organizational  Psychology,  Consumer  Psychology,  Social  Psychology and  Cognitive  Psychology.  Recently a new chair for  Consumer  Psychology has been established and a collaborative research center on decision making been opened.  Further research is also being conducted at the  Otto- Selz- Institute ( Mannheim  Centre for  Work and  Health), which focuses on the impact of negative influences at the workplace.

The  Department of  Political  Science has an emphasis on the use of quantitative and analytical methods in its research on political phenomena.  The  Department's main areas of focus in research and teaching are  Comparative  Politics and  International  Relations, with emphasis on  Political  Behavior,  Political  Economy,  International  Conflict, and  German and  European  Politics.  The research activities of the  Department of  Political  Science are complemented by the  Mannheim  Centre for  European  Social  Research (MZES) and the  Collaborative  Research  Centre SFB 884 " Political  Economy of  Reforms",  The  Department of  Political  Science was one of the first universities in  Germany to introduce a systematic and international study program by offering  Bachelor,  Master and  Ph.D (doctoral) degree programs.  Furthermore, the department holds close partnerships and exchange programs with the  Washington  University,  St.  Louis, the  Johns  Hopkins  University,  Baltimore, and the  University of  Milan,  Milan.  The  University of  Mannheim is editor of the  American  Political  Science  Review, which is published by  Cambridge  University  Press.  The current editor-in-chief is  Mannheim's  Thomas König.

The  Mannheim  School of  Humanities engages in research and teaching at the intersection of culture, society and business with an interdisciplinary, international and intercultural perspective.  With 26 full professorships, two junior professorships, about 100 research and teaching associates and more than 2,800 students in total, the  Mannheim  School of  Humanities is the university's second largest school.  Each year, about 1,000 new students take up their studies at the  School of  Humanities.

The  School encompasses  English studies,  Germanic studies, history, media and communication studies, philosophy and  Romance studies.  These disciplines rank  Mannheim in the top three to ten institutions in  Germany.  In close cooperation with the  Business  School, the  School of  Humanities offers several renowned interdisciplinary study programs such as " Culture and  Business".

Distinguished fields of research are globalization studies and linguistic topics such as multilingualism.  The school stands in close cooperation with the  Institute for the  German  Language (IDS), the  Mannheim  Centre for  Empirical  Multilingualism  Research (MAZEM g Gmb H) and maintains extensive cooperation with a large variety of international partner universities.

The school consists of the  Institute of  Mathematics and the  Institute of  Computer  Science:

The  Institute of  Computer  Science and  Business  Informatics consists of eleven  Chairs and  Professorships dedicated to  Data  Management,  Software  Development,  Web  Technologies,  Process  Modelling, and  Mobile and  Visual  Media.  Their common point of interest is the management of complex data material for society and economy.  The institute is mainly located in the building A 5,6.  Together with the business informatics group that are part of the  Business  School, the  Institute of  Computer  Science recently founded the  Center for  Business  Informatics to ensure that research and teaching standards in this area remain at the highest level.

The  Institute of  Mathematics consists of eleven  Chairs and 22  Professorships that focus on classical mathematical disciplines as well as on economic and practical-oriented fields of mathematics.  The main areas of research include  Algebra,  Analysis,  Geometry,  Stochastics and  Mathematical  Statistics as well as  Mathematics in  Finance and  Insurance.  Through its successful focus on business mathematics in research and teaching, the  Institute of  Mathematics is constantly expanding its close cooperation with the  University's  Department of  Economics and the  Business  School.

The  University of  Mannheim was called " The  Harvard of  Germany" by the  German newspaper  Die  Zeit.  Furthermore,  Times  Higher  Education referred to the UMA as " Germany's leading higher education institution for business and economics" since the university is especially known for  Business,  Economics and  Social  Sciences.  The  University is widely considered to have the best business and economics program in  Germany and its  Master in  Management is ranked 14th in  Europe by the FT.  The university's business school is ranked 1st in  Germany by the  Eduniversal ranking and 34th worldwide.

The  Business  School's MBA program is ranked globally 23rd by CNN  Expansion, and 26th by  The  Economist.  Its  Executive MBA ranks 21st internationally in the  Financial  Times  Executive MBA  Ranking.  Moreover, the  School of  Law, the  School of the  Humanities, and the  School of  Mathematics and  Computer  Science – due to their close collaboration with  Business  Administration and the  Social  Sciences – provide their students with unique opportunities for specialization.  According to the ranking of the  German business newspaper  Wirtschaftswoche, which based on the opinion of 500 human resources managers of leading companies in  Germany, all programs of the university reached a place in the top 10.  Moreover, a study conducted in 2011 by the social networking platform XING revealed that the majority of executives in  German companies are alumni of the  University of  Mannheim.  According to the current edition of the CHE- Ranking, the  University of  Mannheim is one of the most successful  German universities.  Nationwide it received the best evaluation in four of its disciplines: business administration, economics, political and social science.  In 2012 the university received the ERASMUS E- Quality seal for its performance in the ERASMUS exchange program.  The  German  Academic  Exchange  Service (DAAD) awards this distinction annually to universities that perform especially well in the ERASMUS exchange program.

The admission process of the  University of  Mannheim is known as highly competitive.  The  Mannheim's business administration undergraduate program is the most selective undergraduate program at the  University of  Mannheim with an admission rate of only 10 to 11%.  It is widely known for its reputation as the most prestigious undergraduate business program in  Germany and its highly selective admissions.  Undergraduate as well as graduate students are generally selected based on academic excellence and extraordinary extracurricular involvement.  Furthermore, students have to proof an excellent command of the  English language through very high  Abitur grades in  English or  English tests, like TOEFL or IELTS.  In 2012, the mean entrance average for  Mannheim's business undergraduate degree was 1.2/5.0 (with 1.0 the highest grade possible), with more than 90% of admitted applicants ranking in the top 10% of their high school classes.  Other highly competitive undergraduate programs at the university include  Economics,  Psychology,  Information  Systems and  Law.

Admission to consecutive  Master's programs always requires at least an undergraduate degree equivalent to the  German grade "good" (i.e., normally a B+ in  American, or a 2:1 in UK terms).  Furthermore, at graduate level, applicants of the  Business  School have to submit a GMAT score of at least 600 to be considered in the application process while applicants for the economics programs have to absolve the GRE with high scores - especially in the quantitative section of the test.  The average GMAT score of the class 2015 of the  Mannheim  Master in  Management was 680.

Admission to  Mannheim's full-time MBA program was rated as the most selective in  Europe, on par with the HEC  Paris MBA.

The academic year is divided into two terms.  The winter term (semester) runs from  September 1 to  January 31 and the summer term from  February 1 to  July 31.  Mannheim was the first university in  Germany that decided to adopt the timeframe of international academic years whereby the academic winter term already starts in  September - while in  Germany the classical academic year begins in  October.  Thus, classes are held from early  September to early  December and early  February to early  June.  Students can generally only begin their studies in the winter term and not during the summer terms.  The standard time required to finish a bachelor's degree is principally six semesters, and a further four semesters for consecutive master's degrees.  The normal length of  Ph.D. programs for full-time students is 6 semesters.

In general, the  German government heavily subsidizes university study to keep higher education affordable and accessible regardless of the student's socio-economic background.  After the  German " Bundesverfassungsgericht" ( Constitutional  Court) had overturned a federal law prohibiting tuition fees in year 2005 and devolved the right to administrate tuition fees to the federal state level, the  University of  Mannheim decided upon the introduction of tuition fees in the summer term of 2006.

Following the ruling in 2005, the  University of  Mannheim started charging tuition fees of €500 per semester (i.e. €1,000 per year) since the beginning of the autumn/winter term 2007. (as with any university in  Baden-Württemberg)  In addition to the tuition fees a basic contribution fee to the state-run  Studentenwerk of €66.5 as well as a €60 administrative fee ( Verwaltungsgebühr) are mandatory.  Following an amendment in  Baden-Württemberg students do not have to pay the tuition fees of €500 any longer from 2012 on.

In 2007, the  University of  Mannheim established a university-wide scholarship system addressing both undergraduate and graduate students.  With more than 144 scholars in 2014 the university maintains one of the largest scholarship systems of all public universities in  Germany.  The  University works, thereby, in close cooperation with a large number of partners and funders that include individuals, companies and foundations.  Among the scholarship partners, companies like  Mc Kinsey &  Co.,  Allianz,  Merck K Ga A, BASF SE or  Bertelsmann can be found, as well as foundations like the  Ulrike &  Dr.  Axel  Weber  Stiftung or the  Ernst &  Young  Stiftung.  The recipients of all scholarships are chosen based on their academic performance and for all scholarships an application is mandatory.  The scholarships are both directed at enrolled/incoming students as well as university applicants.  In addition to the respective funding, important networking possibilities are offered.  In the academic year of 2011/12, the  University integrated the  Deutschland  Scholarship of the  Federal  Government in its scholarship system.  Mannheim's scholarship includes several programs:

The  Deutschland  Scholarship was initiated in the year of 2011 by the  German  Federal  Government designated as a national scholarship program supporting selected scholars with a monthly funding of €150.  This base-line scholarship amount is sponsored by private donors.  The  Federal  Government doubles this amount of funding to €300 per month.  In addition to a student's academic performance, the  University of  Mannheim considers the applicants' personal circumstances, social commitments or extracurricular success during the assessment.  The  Mannheim  Votum  Scholarship was established in 2011 by the  Votum- Foundation that assigns scholarships to orphans in need of support in order to enable successful studies at the  University of  Mannheim.  All complete, semi-, divorce or social orphans are entitled to an application.  The funding contains a maximum of €6,000 per year.  The  Mannheim  Sports  Scholarship is explicitly oriented towards students who are already enrolled at the  University of  Mannheim.  In order to financially support top athletes at the  University of  Mannheim and to consider their additional effort for training and competitions, the university has established a sports scholarship.  The  Mannheim  Sports  Scholarship supports enrolled athletes way beyond the cooperation agreement " Kooperationsvereinbarung/ Partnerhochschule" for top class sports.  Organizational as well as financial support is supposed to mitigate the dual burden of top athletes – this support, for instance, include individual tutorships and assistance in administrative issues as well.  The  University chooses the scholarship recipients in conjunction with their private donors.  Furthermore, the system aspires to a close contact between the scholarship holders and donors.

Mannheim's library system's origins date back to the early 20th century.  When  Mannheim's  City  College of  Trade ( Städtische  Handelshochschule) was founded in 1907, it maintained a large central library, which was supplemented by various departmental libraries.  In 1932 these libraries were merged with the  Municipal  Palace  Library ( Städtische  Schlossbücherei), which later became the  Municipal  Science  Library  Mannheim ( Wissenschaftliche  Stadtbibliothek  Mannheim).

When the  National  Socialists came to power in 1933, the  College of  Trade was dissolved and the books in its library were donated to the  University of  Heidelberg.  In 1946 the bulk of the collection was returned when the " Staatliche  Wirtschaftshochschule  Mannheim" ( State  College of  Business  Mannheim) was founded.  When the business college became a university in 1967, the library acquired new and much expanded collections in all the subjects taught at the university.  It also inherited around 240,000 volumes of older books from the " Wissenschaftliche  Stadtbibliothek  Mannheim" ( Scientific  Municipal  Library  Mannheim), which was dissolved in 1970.  The library's collection of books and media has nearly doubled since.  Today, the  University  Library of  Mannheim maintains four libraries with more than 2.2 million volumes.  The conventional book supply is complemented by numerous electronic services, such as 30,000 scientific journals, 600 scientific databases and more than 47,000 e-books that can be accessed via e-journal.  It is one of  Germany's most frequently used library systems and in the  German library rankings of 2012, it was placed among the 5 best libraries in  Germany.

The  Schloss  Ehrenhof library, also known as " Hasso  Plattner" library, is located on the  Mannheim  Palace campus and is the main library of the university.  The library was built in 2006 and is among the most modern and best equipped university libraries in  Germany.  The library's construction was primarily funded by a donation of  Euro 10 million by the SAP co-founder  Hasso  Plattner in 2005.  The library was planned by the architects  Blocher &  Blocher  Partners and built by  Bilfinger  Berger.  Today, on an area of more than 4,700 square meters, the library houses subject-related literature in economics, history, geography and law.

Besides the  Hasso  Plattner library, there are the business-focused  Schloss  Schneckenhof library, the humanities-focused A3 library and the A5 library which has a focus on social sciences, mathematics, computer science and information systems.

The profile of the  University of  Mannheim is reflected in its research achievements.  In economic and social sciences,  Mannheim is one of the best research centers in  Germany and among the top ten to twenty institutions in  Europe.

All disciplines work in close cooperation with each other to determine central research subjects, for example on the topics of decisions, governance, migration and integration or language acquisition.

University of  Mannheim's largest research institute is the  Mannheim  Centre for  European  Social  Research.  In close collaboration with the  School of  Social  Sciences, it dedicates its research to exploring societal, social and political development in  Europe.  Focal points are comparative research on  Europe and investigating the  European integration process.

Furthermore, there are different collaborative research centres, such as SFB 884: " Political  Economy of  Reforms", which aims to provide scientific insights into success and failure of reforms, determined by competing interests, contexts and the political process of reform-making.  The project  Group „ Contextualized  Decision  Making:  Investigating  Mediators and  Moderators", funded by the  German  Research  Foundation (DFG), investigates how people make decisions and why decisions often depend on weeny aspects of the situation in which they are taken.

There are also a further three renowned research institutes with close ties to the  University:  The ZEW —  Centre for  European  Economic  Research, GESIS –  Leibniz  Institute for the  Social  Sciences, and the IDS –  Institute of  German  Language.

Mannheim  Center for  Entrepreneurship and  Innovation

  One of the more recently established institutions that are affiliated with the  University is the  Mannheim  Center for  Entrepreneurship and  Innovation (MCEI) that intends to provide a founder and incubator platform for students, young entrepreneurs and investors.  The institute is supported by the  Mannheim  Institute for  Mittelstand and SME  Research ( If M) and the  Chair of SME  Research &  Entrepreneurship at the  University of  Mannheim.  Several successful startups have already been launched at the  University of  Mannheim or been initiated by former students, for instance,  Payback (€500m exit to  American  Express),  Delivery  Hero (raised $1.4b funding), AUTO1  Group (raised $200m funding),  Studi VZ (€85m exit to  Georg von  Holtzbrinck  Publishing  Group),  Simfy (raised €30m funding),  Goodgame  Studios (initiating IPO),  Saving Global (raised $32m funding),  Synchronite (sold to  Live Person), movilizer (sold to  Honeywell in 2016), movilitas (sold to  Peak- Ryzex),  Amorelie (sold to  Pro Sieben Sat.1  Media),  Angel Pad,  Lendico (raised >€20m funding),  Pay Mill (raised $18m funding), esome (raised €14m funding),  Spreadshirt (raised $12.7m funding), number26 (raised €50m funding),  Trip Da (raised $11m funding),  Stocard (raised €6.2m funding), M Cube  Incubator,  Compass (raised $4.4m funding),  Trecker.com (raised $2.6m funding),  Coffee  Circle (raised €2.1m funding),  Cloud Rail (raised €0.5m funding),.  Live Coding.tv (Y- Combinator class of 2015),  Brickgate,  Cater Wings, 52masterworks, or  Appinio.

The  University of  Mannheim maintains wide-ranging international contacts to universities and organizations on all continents, both in areas of research and student exchange.  Apart from being a member of the  International  Association of  Universities (IAU) network, the university participates in several  European exchange schemes for researchers and students, such as the  European ERASMUS, the IBEA and ENTER programs partnering with universities like  University  College  London,  University of  Stockholm,  Tilburg  University or  Charles III  University of  Madrid.  It also coordinates several intercontinental projects, mostly through the  Erasmus  Mundus program.  Today, the university maintains more than 550 cooperations with over 400 universities in more than 50 countries and five continents, among them:

Besides its direct academic cooperations and exchange programs the  University of  Mannheim maintains a broad network to other universities and research institutions trough its memberships of the  German  Universities  Excellence  Initiative, the  German  Research  Foundation (DFG), the  European  Quality  Improvement  System (EQUIS), the  Association to  Advance  Collegiate  Schools of  Business (AACSB) as well as the  Association of MB As (AMBA).  Furthermore,  Mannheim has set up international summer schools for international students offering (semi-)intensive  German courses and numerous subject courses, by the departments of  Business  Administration and  Philosophy.

The  University of  Mannheim is dedicated predominantly to the study and research of social sciences, mathematics and computer sciences and is the only university in the  Germany to be so.  The UMA awards a range of academic degrees spanning bachelors, masters and  Ph Ds.  The postnominals awarded are the degree abbreviations used commonly among  German universities.

The  University of  Mannheim offers a wide variety of academic degrees for undergraduate students.  Numerous university rankings confirm the excellent status of the overall  Mannheim course portfolio.  For many years now  Mannheim has been recognized as the undisputed top provider of business administration and economics degrees in  Germany.  The subjects political science, sociology, history,  English studies,  Germanic studies, computer science and information systems are also regularly highly ranked.  One of the key features of  Mannheim teaching is that as well as the  Business  School itself, all the other schools offer students the opportunity to acquire substantial business knowledge in addition to their major.

Courses are split across more than thirty research centres and departments, plus a  Language  Centre (IDS).  Since almost all programmes are within the social sciences, they closely resemble each other, and undergraduate as well as graduate students usually take at least one course module in a subject outside of their degree, promoting a broader education in the social sciences.  At undergraduate level, specific departments are relatively small (c. 90 students across three years of bachelor studies), ensuring small lecture sizes and a more hands-on approach than other public institutions.  Since  September 2009, it has been compulsory for second year undergraduates to study  Business  Ethics alongside normal studies.

Mannheim has a "comprehensive" graduate program with high coexistence with the programs offered to undergraduates.  Normally, the  University of  Mannheim provides further study options for each of its  Bachelor programs.  The university offers graduate degrees in  Master's of  Art,  Master's of  Science, LL.M's, and  Ph D's in addition to professional degrees such as the  Juris  Doctor and  Master of  Business  Administration.  Admission to graduate programs is decentralized; applicants apply directly to the department or degree program.  Most graduate students are supported by fellowships, teach assistantships, or research assistantships.  In general, the  Master's programs incorporate a strong international dimension, for instance by offering integrated exchange programs and double degrees and an increasing number of them is completely taught in  English.

The  Mannheim  Graduate  School for  Economics and  Social  Sciences (GESS) provides doctoral training in empirical and quantitative methods and their application to economic and social sciences.  The  Graduate  School is the first of its kind in  Germany and is among very few in the world to integrate these disciplines into a coherent curriculum.  It is funded by the " Excellence  Initiative" of the  German government.  The GESS consists of the  Center  Doctoral  Studies in  Business (CDSB),  Center for  Doctoral  Studies in  Economics (CDSE) and the  Center for  Doctoral  Studies in  Social and  Behavioral  Sciences (CDSS).

The GESS offers different  Ph D programs, among them:

Furthermore, the  University of  Mannheim offers the possibility to do an individual doctorate which is the traditional option in  Germany.  Doctoral candidates are supervised by a professor.  The  School of  Humanities offers a third option — in the doctoral training program " Formations of the  Global", each doctoral student receives close support from three mentors out of multiple disciplines and is integrated into an interdisciplinary lecture program.

The  University of  Mannheim has courses in continued academic education, with the  Mannheim  Business  School (MBS) as its prime example.  Mannheim  Business  School is the umbrella organization for continued business education at the  University of  Mannheim.  Programs offered include the  Mannheim MBA (different tracks are available, e.g.  Asian track), the ESSEC &  Mannheim  Executive MBA,  Tongji &  Mannheim  Executive MBA and the  Master of  Accounting &  Taxation.

Mannheim hosts more than 15  Studentenverbindungen (student cooperations), which were predominantly founded in the 19th century.  The  Studentenverbindungen are to some extent comparable to the fraternities in the US or  Canada.  As traditional symbols (couleurs) corporation members wear colored caps and ribbons at ceremonial occasions ( Kommers) and some of them still practice the tradition of academic fencing ( Mensur), a kind of duelling, with the intention to "shape their members for the challenges of life."   In the 19th and early 20th century, the  Studentenverbindungen played an important role in  Germany's student life.  Today, however, these corporations include only a relatively small number of students that often have the self-declared mission to keep academic traditions alive and to create friendships for life.  The corporations' often representative 19th-century mansions are present throughout  Mannheim.

Mannheim is not least famous for its student night life.  Besides the various parties regularly organized by the  Fachschaften (student councils) of the different faculties, the semester opening and closing parties of the university, the  Schlossfest, the dormitory parties, and the soirées of  Mannheim's student fraternities, the city, and the metropolitan area even more, offers a wide spectrum of night life activities.  Adjacent to  Mannheim's main campus is  Mannheim downtown that represents the major night life district, where numerous bars and clubs are located close to each other.  About 10-15 min. by tram away from the  Mannheim  Palace,  Mannheim's upcoming party/pub district  Jungbusch can be reached that is also in close neighborhood to several of  Mannheim's student resident halls.  From  Wednesday on, it is all night very crowded and full of atmosphere.  Moreover,  Mannheim has more than six major clubs.  The largest of them, the " Baton  Rouge", is located in the middle of downtown adjacent to  Mannheim's monument, the  Wasserturm.  The city of  Frankfurt am  Main - " Germany's finance capitol", which is about three times as large as  Mannheim, can be reached a 30-minute train ride away, and offers an even more diverse night life, having a broader variety of clubs and bars.  Furthermore, the city of  Heidelberg, that is home to the famous  Heidelberg  Castle and the  Old  Town with origins in the 13th century, can be reached by train in 15 minutes.

In the 2011–12 academic year there were 12,000 full-time students at the  University of  Mannheim.  Of these, approximately 15% of the student body came from abroad.  Furthermore, each academic term around 800 incoming exchange students (370 ERASMUS students) choose the  University of  Mannheim as their exchange institution.  In general, the UMA has, together with the exchange body, a highly international student body, with 110 nationalities represented.  Additionally, in the 2011  International  Student  Barometer, a global survey for international students, the  University of  Mannheim was ranked #1 in  Germany for multicultural study environment.  There is approximately an equal split between genders with 51% men and 49% female students.

Students interested in sports can choose from more than seventy disciplines at the  Mannheim  Institute of  Sports – from beginners to top-level.  The  Mannheim  Institute of  Sports is a modern-service enterprise within the  University of  Mannheim supporting athletics and the health of all students and employees at the  University of  Mannheim and the region.  At the moment the institute offers a wide variety of programs with 241 courses in 76 different athletic disciplines and more than 320 hours per week.  Most of the courses are offered free of charge.  During the academic terms more than 6.000 students participate weekly.

Moreover, the  University of  Mannheim also maintains numerous sports societies that vary widely in their level and scope.  Many more popular sports operate several university teams and departmental teams which compete in leagues against other teams within the university.  The university offers a broad variety of varsity teams, such as teams in more than 16 different court sports from  Tennis to  Volleyball, courses in several different  Martial  Arts, 26 courses in physical fitness and body building, 9 courses in health sports from aquapower to yoga, and groups in 12 different dance styles.  In addition, equestrian sports,  Sailing,  Rowing,  Skiing in the  Austrian  Alps,  Track and  Field,  Swimming,  Fencing,  Cycling,  Acrobatics,  Gymnastics, and many more.  Mannheim is also host of a large number of successful athlets that compete on national and international level in several disciplines – the majority of these athletes is supported by the  Mannheim  Sports  Scholarship.  Supported students include  German champions in  Handball (2009),  Olympic-style  Weightlifting (2009),  Chess (2008),  Shooting (2009) and  Hockey (2012).

The  University of  Mannheim and its sports teams also engages in numerous national and international competitions, such as the " European  University  Rowing  Championships", where the  University of  Mannheim placed 2nd in 2005 finishing ahead of the  University of  Oxford, or the WHU  Euromasters championships at which  Mannheim regularly participates in the disciplines of  Soccer (male & female),  Basketball,  Volleyball,  Relay  Race,  Rowing and  Cheerleading.  Mannheim regularly competes against the  Heidelberg  University at the  Red  Bull  Student  Boat  Battle, an annual university sports event initiated by the  Red  Bull  Gmb H that takes place in  Mannheim and  Heidelberg since 2007.  During the competition the two universities celebrate their long-established rivalry by competing in the discipline of  Water  Jousting.  Furthermore, the  University of  Mannheim and the WHU- Otto  Beisheim  School of  Management established the annual rowing race  German MBA  Rowing  Race in 2006 where the MBA students of the  Mannheim  Business  School and those of the WHU competing against each other.  Model for the " German MBA  Rowing  Race" championships is the prestigious duel  The  Boat  Race between the universities  Cambridge and  Oxford, carried out annually since 1829.  The annual rowing competition takes place alternately either at the  Moselle in  Koblenz or at the  Neckar in  Mannheim.  The race took place outside of those places in Düsseldorf in 2013 for the first time of its foundation and congregated an audience of several hundred people.  For the first time since 2007,  Mannheim has won the race in  July 2013 and defended the title in 2014.  The detailed nature of the record-keeping over the event's history has many record statistics being carefully monitored. A selection of the more frequently cited statistics includes:  Number of wins: WHU, 6;  Mannheim, 3 (2006, 2013, 2014);  Most consecutive victories: WHU, 6 (2007–2012).

The university supports a number of student groups in various fields of interest.  Currently there are around 36 active student clubs or "associations" on  Mannheim's campus.  Among them are the student parliament A St A, the student councils of the different faculties ( Fachschaften), two drama clubs, the university orchestras  Collegium  Musicum  Instrumentale and  College  Jazz  Orchestra, three choirs, six student media groups, eight groups of political parties, a large number of different NGO's such as  Amnesty  International  Student  Initiative 1388  Mannheim,  Unicef  Student  Initiative,  Model  United  Nations  Mannheim e.V.,  Enactus  Universität  Mannheim e.V or the SI Co R –  Student initiative  Club of  Rome e.V.  Mannheim, several departments of  European organizations of students in certain disciplines, numerous clubs dedicated to fostering international relations and cultural exchange such as AIESEC  Mannheim e.V., AEGEE  Mannheim e.V. or the VISUM  Society of  International  Student  Partnerships, one chess club, one literature club, two debate societies, four religion student groups, several student-run management consulting groups like INTEGRA e.V., and various business or economics related student groups such as the financial industries focused IB  League  Mannheim e.V.,  Arbeitskreis Börse e.V. and  Mannheim  Finance &  Controlling  Club e.V. (MFCC), the marketing driven  Market  Team  Mannheim and MTP –  Marketing zwischen  Theorie und  Praxis e.V., or entrepreneurship interested .  The largest student initiative at  Mannheim's campus is  Arbeitskreis Börse –  Studenten der  Universität  Mannheim e.V. (AKB) with more than 1,000 active members and several thousand paying alumni members, founded in 1984 and that is focused on connecting students and companies out of capital markets and consulting.  Furthermore,  Mannheim students have established the student-run congress  Mannheim  Forum in recent years that is dealing with contemporary topics political, economical and business related topics.  The official organization of former students of the  University of  Mannheim is  Absolvent UM  Uni- Mannheim.  With more than 7,000 members and 50 alumni clubs on 4 continents, it is one of  Europe's leading associations of its kind and was recognized as the best alumni association in  Germany by the  Stifterverband für die  Deutsche  Wissenschaft in 2001.  Since 1993, the club has been reinforcing the alumni's lifelong bonds with the  University of  Mannheim, as well as the networks among its members, by means of numerous events and information platforms.

The  Mannheim  Forum is an economic congress organized exclusively by students of the  University of  Mannheim and is among the largest collegiate events in  Germany with more than 500 participants each year.  During the  Mannheim  Forum various events take place on  Mannheim's main campus.  Besides topical speeches by renowned people, the participants also have the opportunity to attend the  Recruiting  Fair, as well as participate in several company workshops.  During the panel discussions the audience can discuss with several top tier personalities from the worlds of business, economics, society and politics.  Renowned speaker include  Frank  Mattern (CEO,  Mc Kinsey &  Co.  Germany),  Peer  Steinbrück,  Paul  Achleitner,  Christian  Lindner, Götz  Werner,  Dirk Müller (famous broker, known as " Mister  Dax"),  Hamed  Abdel- Samad,  Sahra  Wagenknecht and  Frank  Plasberg etc.  Under the topic „ Time  Questions:  Politics,  Economy,  Society and  Science“, the most recent  Forum took place, under the patronage of the state  Baden-Württemberg and its  Minister- President  Winfried  Kretschmann, from 13th until 15  March 2015 on  Mannheim's main campus - the  Mannheim  Palace.

In 2012, the student initiative  Mannheim  Forum was founded by the three largest student initiatives at  Mannheim's campus:  Arbeitskreis Börse (AKB), MTP -  The  Marketing  Initiative, and  Poli Motion -  The  Politics  Initiative.  The idea and goal behind the initiative was to establish an event that enable participants and students of different branches of study to engage in dynamic dialog with representatives of politics, science and economics about specific issues that are relevant in today's world.  The first event organized by the initiative was the panel discussion in 2012 between  Mannheim professors of different disciplines and company representatives about the topic "EU -  Economic  Poliy -  Quo  Vadis?!".  The event received positive responses from both students and participants alike.  From then on, the students' aim was to establish this event on a larger scale under the name " Mannheim  Forum" as a fixed annual event at the  University of  Mannheim.  The first  Mannheim  Forum was then conducted in 2013 under the topic of “ Resources – 6  Perspectives:  Economy,  Ethics,  Security,  Politics,  Technology and  Startups”, followed by the  Mannheim  Forum in 2014 centering on the topic " Distribution of  Power in the  World".  The  Mannheim  Forum 2015 had its focus on " Time  Questions:  Politics,  Economy,  Society and  Science".

Mannheim  Forum is mainly organized by students in their first and second academic term (nevertheless it is open to every student at UMA) bringing in new ideas and fresh perspectives, but are supported and financed by external partners, including  Mc Kinsey &  Co., SAP AG,  Lufthansa,  Reckitt  Benckiser, HSBC,  Deloitte,  Heidelberg  Cement,  Hoffmann- La  Roche as well as the  Mannheim  Business  School and alumni - who ensure that knowledge based on experience is used and implemented.  Furthermore, the  Mannheim  Forum holds close cooperations with other student initiatives at the  University of  Mannheim, like MTP,  Arbeitskreis Börse and POL Imotion.

Each year the  University of  Mannheim is host of the  Schlossfest ( Palace  Festival), a festival at which the  Mannheim  Palace campus is open to visitors and introduces the university to incoming freshmen.  During the  Schlossfest several events take place that are dealing with themes out of arts, science and music.  The science events include live experiments and academic speeches regarding specific subjects, while the arts events include art exhibitions, art workshops, dance acts, museum guides as well as guides through the old, non-public areas within the  Mannheim  Palace.  Furthermore, several live-acts including musicians like  Xavier  Naidoo (2011), Söhne  Mannheims, orchestras as well as comedians like Bülent  Ceylan (2009) are part of the event program.  The  Schlossfest in 2013 attracted more than 13,800 visitors.  The  University of  Mannheim also regularly hosts a large number of concerts, sport events, talks as well as theatrical performances.  One of the largest events represents the annual music concert  Arena of  Pop organized by the radio station  Big FM that featured acts including P!nk,  Ricky  Martin,  Foreigner or  Sunrise  Avenue.

Besides the  Schlossfest the  University fosters the long-established tradition of weekly  Schneckenhof parties that usually take place  Thursdays on UMA's popular quadrangle "the  Schneckenhof" during the summer terms and in UMA's catacombs during the winter terms and that are regularly organized by the  Fachschaften (student councils) of the different faculties.  The tradition of conducting parties on the  Schneckenhof dates back to the early 1990s.  Of those parties the most famous are the ones hosted by the  Fachschaft BWL ( Student  Council of  Business  Administration) once each academic term, called "BW Ler  Fete", which normally attract the largest number of visitors, e.g. 3,000 in  Fall 2013.  The BW Ler  Fete is traditionally sponsored by different corporate partners such as  Hays,  Oliver  Wyman or MLP and each party is organized under a unique theme, such as  Russian  Lover ( Fall 2010),  Circus  Circus ( Summer 2010),  Like A  Boss ( Fall 2012) or  Schneckenhof  Goes  Hollywood ( Fall 2013).  Each of the "BW Ler  Fete" parties usually ends with the refrain of the song " Meine  Stadt" by the Söhne  Mannheims.

Another event that has become a popular tradition at the  University of  Mannheim are the  Norweger  Parties ( Norwegian  Partys) that were established by  Norwegian  Mannheim alumni in 1981.  Normally, the event takes place during the academic summer at the  University's  Schneckenhof and is organized and hosted by  Norwegian exchange students or  Mannheim students with  Norwegian background, in conjunction with international UMA societies.  The event is characterized by attracting a large number of visitors (3,000 in 2013) and belongs to the most popular  Schneckenparties.  During the event the  Schneckenhof is decorated in  Norwegian themes and offers traditional beverages and food from  Norway.

Student newspapers include the long-established  The  Uni M Agazin and its younger rival,  The  For UM.  Together with colleagues from the  Heidelberg  University, students run a radio station since 2001, radioaktiv, which provides members with an opportunity to produce and host weekly radio shows and promotes broadcast journalism, sports coverage, comedy and drama.

Student  Housing – while not directly on-campus – is provided through the " Studentenwerk  Mannheim" ( Student  Services  Mannheim) which offers student accommodation and catering services with more than 19 residence halls and 13 cantinas.  The residence halls have an overall capacity of more than 3,150 places.  Furthermore, the " Studentenwerk" also runs a general social counseling service, a large nursery and other social institutions.

Different apartment types and single rooms in residence halls, traditional working-class neighborhoods or upscale suburbs are available.  Most rooms are furnished and hard wired to the university's computer center, which means that internet is for free.  The monthly fees also cover heating, hot water and hall cleaning.  The prices for a single room ranges between €285–330 per month and €260–380 per month for single apartments.  All the residence halls are within cycling distance to the colleges and are well linked to the vast public transportation network of  Mannheim  City.  The catering services include the operation of the university's canteen and cafeteria EO which are offering meals for students at discounted prices.  Applications for rooms or apartments in the residence halls can be made online or at " Studentenwerk" help desks at  Mannheim's campus.  Applications for these sought – after places can be made at any time.

The closest residences to the  Mannheim  Palace campus are located in the squares L8 and N6.  The  Hermann- Heimerich- Haus in N6,8 offers 70 units (20 single rooms in two-person apartments and 50 single-person apartments) and maintains a rooftop common room accessible by all residents.  It is situated next to  Mannheim's shopping malls, the  Mannheim main station and the  Mannheimer  Wasserturm, which is  Mannheim's landmark.  The residence hall L8, 13+14 offers nine single room apartments and is closest to the university's main campus and in direct neighborhood to the  Mannheim  Palace.  Besides these two close resident halls, several further resident halls in relative short distance to the campus are available with good connections to the public transportation system in  Mannheim.

Alumni and faculty of the  University of  Mannheim include many founders and businessmen as well as a large number of internationally acclaimed economists, philosophers, jurisprudents and social scientists.  In business,  Mannheim alumni and faculty notably founded, co-founded or presided over  Morgan  Stanley;  Swiss  Re;  Coty; SAP;  Deutsche  Bank;  Daimler; WILD;  Hugo  Boss;  Escada;  Bench.; K+S;  Evonik; TAG AG and  Ernst &  Young.  Alumni and faculty in the field of economics include the  President of the  Ifo  Institute for  Economic  Research  Hans- Werner  Sinn, the former  President of the DIW  Berlin  Klaus F.  Zimmermann, the  President of the ZEW  Clemens  Fuest, the  President of the RWI  Essen  Christoph M.  Schmidt, economists  Axel  Dreher,  Isabel  Schnabel and  Horst  Siebert, as well as the  Gottfried  Wilhelm  Leibniz  Prize winners  Roman  Inderst and  Knut  Borchardt.  Alumni in the field of computer science include the  Gottfried  Wilhelm  Leibniz  Prize winners  Joachim  Weickert and  Daniel  Cremers as well as  Hans  Meuer, chairman of the  International  Supercomputing  Conference.  With a current network of more than 80,000 living alumni, the  University of  Mannheim is one of the most influential business institutions in  Germany.  Among former students, many have reached top positions in business, -including in DAX companies-, and in politics.

List of selected alumni (the full list is available at subpage):The  Philipp  University of  Marburg ( German:  Philipps- Universität  Marburg), was founded in 1527 by  Philip I,  Landgrave of  Hesse (usually called the  Magnanimous, although the updated meaning "haughty" is sometimes given) as one of  Germany's oldest universities, dating back to a  Protestant foundation.  As a state university it no longer has any religious affiliation.

It was the main university of the principality of  Hesse and remains a public university of that state.  It now has about 25,000 students and 7,500 employees, making  Marburg, a town of 72,000 inhabitants, the proverbial "university town" ( Universitätsstadt).  Though most subjects are grouped, the  University of  Marburg is not a campus university in the broader sense.  About 12% of the students are international, the highest percentage in  Hesse.  It offers an  International summer university programme every summer and has an awarded ERASMUS programme.

Marburg is home to one of  Germany's most traditional medical faculties.  The  German physicians' union is called  Marburger  Bund.

In 1609, the  University of  Marburg established the world's first professorship in chemistry.  In 2012 it opened the first  German participative chemistry museum, called  Chemicum.  Its experimental course programme is aimed at encouraging young people to pursue careers in science.

20 professors were expelled in 1933, among them  Wilhelm Röpke who emigrated and  Hermann  Jacobsohn who committed suicide.

The university is most famous for its life sciences research, but is also home to one of the few centers that conduct research on the middle east, the CNMS (center for near and middle eastern studies).  The departments of psychology and geography enjoy an outstanding reputation and reached  Excellence  Group status in the  Europe-wide CHE  Excellence  Ranking 2009.

According to the 2012 QS  Ranking, the university ranked among the top 30  German universities.  The ARWU ranking which is more focused on research, ranks the university around 200, with its life sciences and social sciences department in the 151-200 range worldwide.

The strong research is also illustrated by its participation in several SF Bs ( Sonderforschungsbereiche).  These collaborative research centres are financed by the  German  Science  Foundation DFG.  They encourage researchers to cross the boundaries of disciplines, institutes, departments and faculties within the participating university.  The current SFB at  Philipps- University  Marburg are:

Famous natural scientists who studied or taught at the  University of  Marburg:

Marburg was always known as a humanities-focused university.  It retained that strength, especially in  Philosophy and  Theology for a long time after  World  War II.  Theologians include:

The  University of  Marburg offers a broad spectrum[clarification needed] of subjects with research highlights in nano sciences, material sciences, near eastern studies, and medicine.Ludwig- Maximilian  University of  Munich (also referred to as LMU or the  University of  Munich, in  German:  Ludwig- Maximilians- Universität München) is a public research university located in  Munich,  Germany.

The  University of  Munich is among  Germany's oldest universities.  Originally established in  Ingolstadt in 1472 by  Duke  Ludwig IX of  Bavaria- Landshut, the university was moved in 1800 to  Landshut by  King  Maximilian I of  Bavaria when  Ingolstadt was threatened by the  French, before being relocated to its present-day location in  Munich in 1826 by  King  Ludwig I of  Bavaria.  In 1802, the university was officially named  Ludwig- Maximilians- Universität by  King  Maximilian I of  Bavaria in his as well as the university's original founder's honour.

The  University of  Munich has, particularly since the 19th century, been considered as one of  Germany's as well as one of  Europe's most prestigious universities; with 34  Nobel laureates associated with the university, it ranks 13th worldwide by number of  Nobel laureates.  Among these were  Wilhelm Röntgen,  Max  Planck,  Werner  Heisenberg,  Otto  Hahn and  Thomas  Mann.  Pope  Benedict XVI was also a student and professor at the university.  The LMU has recently been conferred the title of "elite university" under the  German  Universities  Excellence  Initiative.

LMU is currently the second-largest university in  Germany in terms of student population; in the winter semester of 2013/2014, the university had a total of 50,542 matriculated students.  Of these, 8,719 were freshmen while international students totalled 7,403 or almost 15% of the student population.  As for operating budget, the university records in 2013 a total of 571.3 million  Euros in funding without the university hospital; with the university hospital, the university has a total funding amounting to approximately 1.5 billion  Euros.

The university was founded with papal approval in 1472 as the  University of  Ingolstadt (foundation right of  Louis IX the  Rich), with faculties of philosophy, medicine, jurisprudence and theology.  Its first rector was  Christopher  Mendel of  Steinfels, who later became bishop of  Chiemsee.

In the period of  German humanism, the university's academics included names such as  Conrad  Celtes and  Petrus  Apianus.  The theologian  Johann  Eck also taught at the university.  From 1549 to 1773, the university was influenced by the  Jesuits and became one of the centres of the  Counter- Reformation.  The  Jesuit  Petrus  Canisius served as rector of the university.

At the end of the 18th century, the university was influenced by the  Enlightenment, which led to a stronger emphasis on natural science.

In 1800, the  Prince- Elector  Maximilianv IV  Joseph (the later  Maximilian I,  King of  Bavaria) moved the university to  Landshut, due to  French aggression that threatened  Ingolstadt during the  Napoleonic  Wars.  In 1802, the university was renamed the  Ludwig  Maximilian  University in honour of its two founders,  Louis IX,  Duke of  Bavaria and  Maximilian I,  Elector of  Bavaria.  The  Minister of  Education,  Maximilian von  Montgelas, initiated a number of reforms that sought to modernize the rather conservative and  Jesuit-influenced university.  In 1826, it was moved to  Munich, the capital of the  Kingdom of  Bavaria.  The university was situated in the  Old  Academy until a new building in the  Ludwigstraße was completed.  The locals were somewhat critical of the amount of  Protestant professors  Maximilian and later  Ludwig I invited to  Munich.  They were dubbed the " Nordlichter" ( Northern lights) and especially physician  Johann  Nepomuk von  Ringseis was quite angry about them.

In the second half of the 19th century, the university rose to great prominence in the  European scientific community, attracting many of the world's leading scientists.  It was also a period of great expansion.  From 1903, women were allowed to study at  Bavarian universities, and by 1918, the female proportion of students at LMU had reached 18%.  In 1918,  Adele  Hartmann became the first woman in  Germany to earn the  Habilitation (higher doctorate), at LMU.

During the  Weimar  Republic, the university continued to be one of the world's leading universities, with professors such as  Wilhelm Röntgen,  Wilhelm  Wien,  Richard  Willstätter,  Arnold  Sommerfeld and  Ferdinand  Sauerbruch.

During the  Third  Reich, academic freedom was severely curtailed.  In 1943 the  White  Rose group of anti- Nazi students conducted their campaign of opposition to the  National  Socialists at this university.

The university has continued to be one of the leading universities of  West  Germany during the  Cold  War and in the post-reunification era.  In the late 1960s, the university was the scene of protests by radical students.

Today the  University of  Munich is part of 24  Collaborative  Research  Centers funded by the  German  Research  Foundation (DFG) and is host university of 13 of them.  It also hosts 12 DFG  Research  Training  Groups and three international doctorate programs as part of the  Elite  Network of  Bavaria.  It attracts an additional 120 million euros per year in outside funding and is intensively involved in national and international funding initiatives.

LMU  Munich has a wide range of degree programs, with 150 subjects available in numerous combinations. 15% of the 45,000 students who attend the university come from abroad.

In 2005,  Germany’s state and federal governments launched the  German  Universities  Excellence  Initiative, a contest among its universities.  With a total of 1.9 billion euros, 75 percent of which comes from the federal state, its architects aim to strategically promote top-level research and scholarship.  The money is given to more than 30 research universities in  Germany.

The initiative will fund three project-oriented areas: graduate schools to promote the next generation of scholars, clusters of excellence to promote cutting-edge research and "future concepts" for the project-based expansion of academic excellence at universities as a whole.  In order to qualify for this third area, a university had to have at least one internationally recognized academic center of excellence and a new graduate school.

After the first round of selections, LMU  Munich was invited to submit applications for all three funding lines:  It entered the competition with proposals for two graduate schools and four clusters of excellence.

On  Friday 13  October 2006, a blue-ribbon panel announced the results of the  Germany-wide  Excellence  Initiative for promoting top university research and education.  The panel, composed of the  German  Research  Foundation and the  German  Science  Council, has decided that LMU  Munich will receive funding for all three areas covered by the  Initiative: one graduate school, three "excellence clusters" and general funding for the university’s "future concept".

LMU's institutes and research centers are spread throughout  Munich, with several buildings located in the suburbs of  Oberschleissheim and  Garching as well as  Maisach and  Bad Tölz.  The university's main buildings are grouped around  Geschwister- Scholl- Platz and  Professor- Huber- Platz on  Ludwigstrasse, extending into side streets such as  Akademiestraße,  Schellingstraße, and  Veterinärstraße.  Other large campuses and institutes are located in  Großhadern ( Klinikum  Großhadern),  Martinsried (chemistry and biotechnology campus), the  Ludwigsvorstadt ( Klinikum  Innenstadt) and in the  Lehel ( Institut am  Englischen  Garten), across from the main buildings, through the  Englischer  Garten.

The university's main building is situated in  Geschwister- Scholl- Platz and the university's main campus is served by the  Munich subway's  Universität station.

Despite the  Bologna  Process which saw the demise of most traditional academic degree courses such as the  Diplom and  Magister  Artium in favour of the more internationally known  Bachelors and  Masters system, the  University of  Munich continues to offer more than 100 areas of study with numerous combinations of majors and minors.

In line with the university's internationalisation as a popular destination for tertiary studies, an increasing number of courses mainly at the graduate and post-graduate levels are also available in  English to cater to international students who may have little or no background in the  German language.  Some notable subject areas which currently offer programmes in  English include various fields of psychology, physics as well as business and management. A list of current programmes offered in  English can be accessed directly from the university's international website while a complete list of courses offered across all academic levels can be found here.

The university consists of 18 faculties which oversee various departments and institutes.  The official numbering of the faculties and the missing numbers 06 and 14 are the result of breakups and mergers of faculties in the past.  The  Faculty of  Forestry operations with number 06 has been integrated into the  Technical  University of  Munich in 1999 and faculty number 14 has been merged with faculty number 13.

In addition to its 18 faculties, the  University of  Munich also maintains numerous research centres involved in numerous cross-faculty and transdisciplinary projects to complement its various academic programmes.  Some of these research centres were a result of cooperation between the university and renowned external partners from academia and industry; the  Rachel  Carson  Center for  Environment and  Society, for example, was established through a joint initiative between LMU  Munich and the  Deutsches  Museum, while the  Parmenides  Center for the  Study of  Thinking resulted from the collaboration between the  Parmenides  Foundation and LMU  Munich's  Human  Science  Center.

Some of the research centres which have been established include:

After the  German  Constitutional  Court overturned a federal law prohibiting tuition fees and devolved the right to administrate tuition fees to the state level, the university's  Senate decided upon the introduction of tuition fees in the  Summer  Semester of 2006.  Tuition fees were initially capped at €300 in the  Summer  Semester of 2007 and  Winter  Semester of 2007/2008, but were reviewed in the  Winter  Semester of 2008/2009 to introduce a €42  Grundbeitrag or basic contribution fee to the state-run  Studentenwerk as well as a €50 administrative fee ( Verwaltungsgebühr); the  Verwaltungsgebühr was however subsequently abolished by the  Bavarian state government.

The total tuition fees administered by the university amounted to €542.  After a popular petition, however, tuition fees in the federal state of  Bavaria have been abolished.  Together with the new semester ticket basic fee (see following paragraph), every student pays €111 a semester.

Despite being home to a large student population as well as being one of the most expensive  German cities to live in,  Munich until 2013 stood out as being one of the few  German cities which did not offer a semester transportation pass (generally known as a  Semesterticket) to students.  Because of this, students in  Munich had to separately apply for the  Munich  Transport and  Tariff  Association's (MVV) monthly subscription which came at a significantly higher price as opposed to what a  Semesterticket would have cost in other  German cities.

In 2009, the MVV offered a package which would introduce a  Semesterticket at a basic fee of €78.50 with a premium surchage of €143.50, totalling €222; this proposition narrowly fell through after voting was conducted across all the  Munich universities as it was still deemed to be too pricey in comparison to the  Semesterickets offered by other  German cities, with students of the LMU  Munich voting 52.1% against and 47.9% in favour.  In 2012, a reconditioned package with a basic fee of €59 and a total price of €200 was finally accepted by an overwhelming majority of 86,3% of students across all universities.  The ticket was introduced in the 2013 winter term.

LMU  Munich is consistently ranked among the world's top 100 universities in various international ranking surveys such as the  Academic  Ranking of  World  Universities and the  Times  Higher  Education  Supplement which ranks over 1000 universities worldwide.  In a 2010 human competitiveness index & analysis  Human  Resources &  Labor  Review published in  Chasecareer  Network, LMU  Munich was the only  German university listed in its list of the world's best 50 universities and was ranked 38th internationally.  In 2013, LMU  Munich was internationally ranked 53rd in the QS  World  University  Rankings.

Notable rival  German universities in terms of rankings include TU München,  Humboldt  University,  Heidelberg  University and the  Free  University of  Berlin.

The alumni of  Ludwig  Maximilian  University of  Munich played a major role in the development of quantum mechanics.  Max  Planck, the founder of quantum theory and  Nobel laureate in  Physics in 1918, was an alumnus of the university.  Founders of quantum mechanics such as  Werner  Heisenberg,  Wolfgang  Pauli, and others were associated with the university.  Most recently, to honor the  Nobel laureate in  Chemistry  Gerhard  Ertl, who worked as a professor at the  University of  Munich from 1973–1986, the building of the  Physical  Chemistry was named after him.

Sir  Muhammad  Iqbal a great philosopher, regarded as the  Shair-e- Mashriq (شاعر المشرق, " Poet of the  East"), also called  Muffakir-e- Pakistan (مفکر پاکستان, " The  Thinker of  Pakistan") and  Hakeem-ul- Ummat (حکیم الامت, " The  Sage of the  Ummah"), moved to  Germany in 1907, to study doctorate and earned  Ph D degree from the  Ludwig  Maximilian  University,  Munich in 1908.  Working under the guidance of  Friedrich  Hommel,  Iqbal published his doctoral thesis in 1908 entitled:  The  Development of  Metaphysics in  Persia.

The anti- Nazi resistance  White  Rose was based in this university.

The große  Aula is located in the university main building at  Ludwigstraße in  Munich.  The  Aula was constructed as part of the main building by  Friedrich von Gärtner and completed in 1840.  The hall is situated in the first floor and extends to the second floor.

The  Aula was not destroyed during  World  War II and, thus, one of few usable post war venues in  Munich.  Hence, the  Aula was used for the first performances of concerts after the war.  Furthermore, it was venue for the constituent assembly of the state of  Bavaria, where the current bavarian constitution was enacted.

Today, the  Aula hosts mainly concerts, talks and lectures.This  Norwegian university, college or other education institution article is a stub.  You can help  Wikipedia by expanding it.The  Carl von  Ossietzky  University of  Oldenburg ( German:  Carl von  Ossietzky  Universität  Oldenburg) is a university located in  Oldenburg,  Germany.  It is one of the most important and highly regarded educational facilities in northwestern  Germany and specialises in interdisciplinary & sustainable development studies and renewable energy studies with focus on solar and wind energy.

The first teachers training was held in  Oldenburg as early as 1793, launched by  Duke  Peter  Friedrich  Ludwig. A garden seminar for teachers training was created in 1882.  During the  Weimar  Republic, the establishment of the  Pedagogical  Academy (Pädagogische  Akademie) in  Oldenburg in 1929 enabled the vocational training of teachers.  On 1  October 1945 the institution reopened in postwar  Germany.  In 1948 it was renamed the  Pedagogical  College  Oldenburg (Pädagogische  Hochschule  Oldenburg).

The first step towards the university was done on 23  February 1959 with the decision of the city council to launch a university project, which was followed in 1970 with the  Memorandum establishing the  University of  Oldenburg from the  Minister of  Culture of  Lower  Saxony.  The university was finally founded in 1973.  Enrollment and teaching started in the summer semester of 1974, with an education curriculum for 2,400 students.  In 1991, the university was officially named after the resistance fighter and  Nobel laureate  Carl von  Ossietzky, having been denied to take on his name by previous conservative state governments.  That same year, the number of students passed the mark of 10,000.  The eleven departments of the university were reorganized into five faculties in 2002.  By the end of 2011, there were about 11,325 students.

In 2012, the university founded the faculty of medicine and health sciences, introducing a 12-semester course in human medicine, which leads students to the  German state examination,  Staatsexamen, a prerequisite to practice as a physician.  The new faculty is part of the  European  Medical  School  Oldenburg- Groningen (EMS), a cooperation between the  University of  Oldenburg, the  University of  Groningen ( Netherlands), and local hospitals.

The university offers 95 courses of study.  Due to the  Bologna  Process, in 2004  Oldenburg adopted  Bachelor and  Masters degrees in place of the former  Diplom and  Magister.  One main focus of the university is the schooling of teachers, which was established during the 1970s and remains a strong profile, with master's degrees for teaching offered in all faculties.  The  Ph D program  Didactical reconstruction is especially renowned, as is the research in sustainable development, encompassing several academic disciplines.  The university is also allowed to confer  Doctorates and oversee  Habilitations.

The campus is split into two locations, the major one being  Uhlhornsweg, where the main library, the mensa and the administration along with most of the departments is housed.  Having used the buildings of the former teaching college during the first years, the main buildings of the university were inaugurated in 1982, with ongoing extensions since then, including the main lecture hall in 2001.  The  Wechloy campus, also first opened in 1982, is home to the studies of natural sciences as well as the library of natural sciences.

As part of the  Universities  Excellence  Initiative, the university was awarded a  Cluster of  Excellence for its initiative  Hearing4all.  The cluster deals with research into the improvement of speech understanding in background noise and has a funding of €34 million.

The  Studentenwerk of the  University organizes the cultural bureau UNICUM and the theatre since 1985. UNICUM includes theatrical groups from the university as well as freelancers.  The group  Gegenlicht runs a cinema in the  Old  Aula and on campus during the summer, while the programme zwerg WERK is focused on the presentation of short films.

As in other  German universities, the A St A is the most important organ of student representation.  It administers the public transport tickets for the student body, offers several forms of student loans and organizes festivities.  In addition, the A St A is continually involved in campaigns concerning university policy and social activism.

The  Studentenwerk  Oldenburg operates canteens both the  Uhlhornsweg and the  Wechloy campus.  These are certified by the BIO seal since  January 2004.  In the main cafeteria at  Uhlhornsweg, four different dishes are available every day, as well as side dishes.  In addition, different pasta is served daily, and a selection of high quality, self-composable, courts, at slightly higher prices, is available at the  Culinarium.

In 2001, the cafeteria at  Uhlhornsweg took first place in the taste category and ended up in second place overall at the  German-wide canteen ranking done by UNICUM magazine.  The following years, it steadily dropped, but in 2008, it managed to return to second place overall, and again become first ranked in the taste category.

In addition to the canteens, the  Studentenwerk operates a large cafeteria on  Uhlhornsweg campus.  In  Wechloy, canteen and cafeteria are combined in the same area.

The first major cross-border cooperation was started in 1980 with the  Rijksuniversiteit  Groningen.  It has since then resulted in an especially far-reaching partnership, with several majors jointly offered by the two universities.

The university participates in the ERASMUS programme, a partnership for student exchanges in  Europe.  It maintains cooperation agreements with 105 universities in 44 countries.The  University of  Oslo ( Norwegian:  Universitetet i  Oslo), until 1939 named the  Royal  Frederick  University ( Norwegian:  Det  Kongelige  Frederiks  Universitet), is the oldest university in  Norway, located in the  Norwegian capital of  Oslo.  Until 1  January 2016 it was the largest  Norwegian institution of higher education in terms of size, now surpassed only by the  Norwegian  University of  Science and  Technology.  The  Academic  Ranking of  World  Universities has ranked it the 58th best university in the world and the third best in the  Nordic countries.  In 2015, the  Times  Higher  Education  World  University  Rankings ranked it the 135th best university in the world and the seventh best in the  Nordics.  While in its 2016,  Top 200  Rankings of  European universities, the  Times  Higher  Education listed the  University of  Oslo at 63rd, making it the highest ranked  Norwegian university.

The university has approximately 27,700 students and employs around 6,000 people.  Its faculties include ( Lutheran)  Theology ( Norway's state religion since 1536),  Law,  Medicine,  Humanities,  Mathematics, natural sciences, social sciences,  Dentistry, and  Education.  The university's original neoclassical campus is located in the centre of  Oslo; it is currently occupied by the  Faculty of  Law.  Most of the university's other faculties are located at the newer  Blindern campus in the suburban  West  End.  The  Faculty of  Medicine is split between several university hospitals in the  Oslo area.

The university was founded in 1811 and was modeled after the  University of  Copenhagen and the recently established  University of  Berlin.  It was originally named for  King  Frederick VI of  Denmark and  Norway and received its current name in 1939.  The university is informally also known as  Universitetet ("the university"), having been the only university in  Norway, until 1946 and was commonly referred to as " The  Royal  Frederick's" ( Det  Kgl.  Frederiks), prior to the name change.

The  Nobel  Peace  Prize was awarded in the university's  Atrium, from 1947 to 1989, making it the only university in the world to be involved in awarding a  Nobel  Prize.  Since 2003, the  Abel  Prize is awarded in the  Atrium.  Five researchers affiliated with the university have been  Nobel laureates.

In 1811, a decision was made to establish the first university in the  Dano- Norwegian  Union, after an agreement was reached with  King  Frederik VI, who had earlier believed that such an institution might encourage political separatist tendencies.  In 1813,  The  Royal  Frederik's  University was founded in  Christiania (later renamed  Oslo), a small city at that time.  Circumstances then changed dramatically one year into the commencement[clarification needed] of the university, as  Norway proclaimed independence.  However, independence was somewhat restricted, as  Norway was obliged to enter into a legislative union with  Sweden based on the outcome of the  War of 1814.  Norway retained its own constitution and independent state institutions, although royal power and foreign affairs were shared[clarification needed] with  Sweden.  At a time when  Norwegians feared political domination by the  Swedes, the new university became a key institution that contributed to  Norwegian political and cultural independence.

The main initial function of  The  Royal  Frederick  University was to educate a new class of upper-echelon civil servants, as well as parliamentary representatives and government ministers.  The university also became the centre for a survey of the country—a survey of culture, language, history and folk traditions.  The staff of the university strove to undertake a wide range of tasks necessary for developing a modern society.  Throughout the 1800s, the university's academic disciplines gradually became more specialised.

One of the major changes in the university came during the 1870s when a greater emphasis was placed upon research, the management of the university became more professional, academic subjects were reformed, and the forms of teaching evolved.  Classical education came under increasing pressure.[clarification needed]

When the union with  Sweden was dissolved in 1905, the university became important for producing highly educated experts in a society which placed increasing emphasis on ensuring that all its citizens enjoy a life of dignity and security.  Education, health services and public administration were among those fields that recruited personnel from the university's graduates.

Research changed qualitatively around the turn of the century as new methods, scientific theories and forms of practice changed the nature of research.  It was decided that teachers should arrive at their posts as highly qualified academics and continue academic research alongside their role as teachers.  Scientific research—whether to launch or test out new theories, to innovate or to pave the way for discoveries across a wide range of disciplines—became part of the increased expectations placed on the university.  Developments in society created a need for more and more specialised and practical knowledge, not merely competence in theology or law, for example.  The university strove to meet these expectations through increasing academic specialisation.

The position of rector was established by  Parliament in 1905 following the  Dissolution of the  Union.  Waldemar  Christofer  Brøgger was  Professor of  Geology and became the university's first rector.  Brøgger vacillated between a certain pessimism and a powerfully energetic attitude regarding how to procure finances for research and fulfill his more general funding objectives.  With the establishment of the national research council after  World  War II,  Brøgger's vision was largely fulfilled; research received funding independent of teaching.  This coincided with a massive rise in student enrollment during the 1960s, which again made it difficult to balance research with the demands for teaching.  In the years leading up to 1940, research was more strongly linked with the growth of the nation, with progress and self-assertion; research was also seen to contribute to  Norway's commitment to international academic and cultural development.

During the period after  World  War I, research among  Norwegian researchers resulted in two  Nobel prizes.  The  Nobel prize in  Economics was awarded to  Ragnar  Frisch.  The  Nobel prize in  Chemistry was awarded to  Odd  Hassel.  In the field of linguistics, several  Norwegian researchers distinguished themselves internationally.  Increased research activity during the first half of the 1900s was part of an international development that also included  Norway.  Student enrollment doubled between 1911 and 1940, and students were recruited from increasingly broad geographical, gender and social bases.  The working class was still largely left behind, however.

During the  German occupation, which lasted from 1940–1945, the university rector,  Didrik  Arup  Seip, was imprisoned.  The university was then placed under the management of  Adolf  Hoel, a NS ( Norwegian  Nazi  Party) appointee. A number of students participated in the  Norwegian resistance movement; after fire was set in the university auditorium,  Reich  Commissar  Terboven ordered the university closed and the students arrested. A number of students and teachers were detained by the  Germans nearly until the end of the war.

After WWII, public authorities made loans available to students whose families were unable to provide financial assistance; the  State  Educational  Loan  Fund for  Young  Students was established in 1947.  As a result, the post-war years saw a record increase in student numbers.  Many of these students had been unable to begin their studies or had seen their studies interrupted because of the war; they could now enroll.  For the 1945 autumn semester, 5951 students registered at the university.  This represented the highest student enrollment at  Ui O up to that time.  In 1947, the number had risen to more than 6000 students.  This represented a 50 per cent increase in the number of students compared to the number enrolled prior to the war.

In no previous period had a single decade brought so many changes for the university as the 1960s.  The decade represented an unparalleled period of growth.  From 1960 to 1970, student enrollment tripled, rising from 5,600 to 16,800.  This tremendous influx would have been enough in itself to transform the way the university was perceived, from both the inside and the outside.  As it turned out, the changes were even more comprehensive.  The university campus at  Blindern was expanded, and the number of academic and administrative employees rose.  The number of academic positions doubled, from fewer than 500 to around 1,200.  The increase in the number of students and staff transformed traditional forms of work and organisation.  The expansion of the  Blindern complex allowed the accommodation of 7,000 students.  The explosive rise in student numbers during the 1960s impacted the  Blindern campus in particular.  The faculties situated in central  Oslo— Law and  Medicine—experienced only a doubling in student enrollment during the 1960s, while the number of students in the humanities and social sciences tripled.

By 1968, revolutionary political ideas had taken root in earnest among university students.  The " Student  Uprising" became a turning point in the history of universities throughout the western world.  Often, the outlook for students in the 1960s was bleak.  More than ever before came from non-academic backgrounds and had few role models.  The " University of the  Masses" was unable to lift all its students to the "lofty, elite positions" enjoyed by previous generations of academics.  Many students dissociated themselves, therefore, from the so-called "establishment" and the way the establishment functioned.  Many were impatient and wanted to use their knowledge to change society.  It was thought that academics should stand in solidarity with the underprivileged.

The most fundamental change in the student population was the increasing proportion of women students.  Throughout the 1970s, the number of women increased until it made up the majority of students.  At the same time, the university became a centre for the organised women's liberation movement, which emerged in the 1970s.

Up until the millennium, the number of students enrolled at the university rose exponentially.  In 1992,  Ui O implemented a restriction on admissions for all of its faculties for the first time. A large part of the explanation for the high student numbers was thought to be found in the poor job market.  In 1996, there were 38,265 students enrolled at  Ui O.  This level was approximately 75 per cent above the average during the 1970s and 1980s.  The strong rise in student numbers during the 1990s was attributed partially to the poor labour market.

The highest position at the university is  Professor, i.e. "full  Professor."  In  Norway, the title " Professor," which is protected by law, is only used for full professors.  Prior to 1990, all professors were appointed for life to their chairs by the  King-in- Council, i.e. by the  King upon the advice of the  Cabinet.  The position below  Professor was historically  Docent (translated as  Reader in a UK context and  Professor in an  American context).  In 1985, all  Docents became full professors.  The most common positions below that are førsteamanuensis (translated as  Associate  Professor), and amanuensis or universitetslektor (translated as  Lecturer or  Assistant  Professor).  At the  University of  Oslo, almost all new permanent positions are announced at the  Associate  Professor level; an associate professor may apply for promotion to full professor if he or she holds the necessary competence.

Additionally, there are temporary, qualifying positions such as stipendiat ( Research  Fellow) and postdoktor ( Postdoctoral  Fellow).

A small number of employees with few or no teaching obligations hold the special research career pathway ranks researcher, senior researcher and research professor, which correspond to assistant professor, associate professor and professor, respectively.

Several other less common academic positions also exist.  Historically, only professors had the right to vote and be represented in the governing bodies of the university.  Originally, all professors were automatically members of the  Collegium  Academicum, the highest governing body of the university, but soon afterwards its membership was limited.  Docents were granted the right to vote and be represented in 1939 and other academics and students in 1955.  In 1975, the technical-administrative support staff was also granted the right to vote and be represented in certain bodies, as the last group.  Formerly by law, and now by tradition, the highest positions, such as  Rector or  Dean, are only held by professors.  They are elected by the academic community (academics and students) and by the technical-administrative support staff, but the votes of the academics carry significantly more weight.

The university's research structure consists of eight schools, or "faculties."  They are the  Faculties of  Dentistry,  Educational  Sciences,  Humanities,  Law,  Mathematics and  Natural  Sciences,  Medicine,  Social  Sciences and  Theology.

The university's old campus, strongly influenced by  Prussian architect  Karl  Friedrich  Schinkel's neoclassical style, is located in the centre of  Oslo near the  National  Theatre, the  Royal  Palace and the  Parliament.  The old campus was then occupied by the  Faculty of  Law and most of the other faculties have been transferred to the  Blindern campus in the suburban  West  End, erected in the 1930s.  The  Faculty of  Medicine is split between several university hospitals in the  Oslo area.

The  Faculty of  Theology sponsors 8 research groups in the following fields:

The  University of  Oslo has several units which are not part of one of the faculties, including some interdisciplinary research centres, research centres abroad, the scientific museums, and libraries:

The  University of  Oslo has a long list of notable academics and alumni, spanning the fields of scholarship covered by the university.  The university is home to five  Nobel  Prize winners and is institutionally tied to some of the most prestigious prizes in the world.  The  Nobel  Peace  Prize was awarded in the university's atrium between 1947 and 1989, thus making it the only university to host a  Nobel  Prize ceremony.  Since 2003, the  Abel  Prize is awarded in the university's atrium.

In  July 2015, the  University received intense criticism for allowing  Anders  Behring  Breivik to be admitted to study for a 3-year baccalaureate degree in political science (including courses on democracy, human rights, and respect for minorities).  He is the perpetrator of the 22  July, 2011  Norway attacks,  Norway's worst incident of violence since  World  War II; he only received 21 years in prison (he can be paroled after 10 years; but he can be confined after the 21 years are up, allowable for five years at a time, if he is viewed as still dangerous, which is likely, resulting in an actual life sentence).  The  Rector said they were obliged to follow the regulations, which allowed it because his grades were good enough.  It will be done in solitary confinement, with guards delivering his assignments and the finished work and the grades.

Some of the notable academics of the university are:

The seal of the  University of  Oslo features  Apollo with the  Lyre, and dates from 1835.  The seal has been redesigned several times, most recently in 2009.

Like all public institutions of higher education in  Norway, the university does not charge tuition fees.  However, a small fee of NOK 550 (roughly US$70) per term goes to the student welfare organisation  Foundation for  Student  Life in  Oslo, to subsidise kindergartens, health services, housing and cultural initiatives, the weekly newspaper  Universitas and the radio station  Radio  Nova.

In addition the students are charged a copy and paper fee of NOK 100 (roughly US$17) for full-time students and NOK 50 (roughly US$8.50) for part-time students.  Lastly a voluntary sum of NOK 30 (roughly US$5) is donated to SAIH ( Studentenes og  Akademikernes  Internasjonale  Hjelpefond).

In 2015,  Shanghai  Jiao  Tong  University's  Academic  Ranking of  World  Universities ranked  Ui O 58th worldwide and the best in  Norway, while the 2016  Times  Higher  Education  World  University  Rankings ranked  Ui O 135th.

The 2015/16 rankings of the QS  World  University  Rankings, ranked  Ui O 135th worldwide, and the 2015  Webometrics  Ranking of  World  Universities ranked  Ui O 68th worldwide.

The 2015 rankings of the  Center for  World  University  Rankings (CWUR), which "publishes the only global university ranking that measures the quality of education and training of students as well as the prestige of the faculty members and the quality of their research without relying on surveys and university data submissions", ranked  Ui O 99th worldwide.The  University of  Osnabrück ( German:  Universität  Osnabrück) is a renowned public research university located in the city of  Osnabrück in  Lower  Saxony,  Germany.

In 2011 it was attended by 11,034 students; the staff of 1,858 consisted of 209 professors, 936 additional academic personnel (lecturers without professorships, post-doctoral researchers and post-graduate assistants) and 713 non-academic personnel.  The university is known for a large number of interdisciplinary degree programmes, some of them rare or even unique among  German universities, including  European  Studies,  Applied  Systems  Science and  Cognitive  Science.  Notably, the university is well known for its research in cognitive science, peace and conflict studies, democratic governance,  European  Studies, among many others.

In addition, the university, through its  Master of  Arts in  Democratic  Governance and  Civil  Society graduate program, is also part of the highly prestigious DAAD  Public  Policy and  Good  Governance  Scholarships for  Developing  Countries, along with other reputable institutions in political science and public policy such as the  Hertie  School of  Governance in  Berlin and the  Willy  Brandt  School of  Public  Policy in  Erfurt.  The program attracts the best and the brightest young leaders from  Asia,  Latin  America, and  Africa to study in selected  German universities for a policy-oriented  Master's program.

Former  President of  Germany,  Christian  Wulff, is an alumnus of the university.

Higher education began in 1632 in  Osnabrück when the  Gymnasium  Carolinum was upgraded into a  Jesuit university.  However, the  Academia  Carolina  Osnabrugensis was closed just one year later when  Swedish troops recaptured  Osnabrück for the  Protestant side in the  Thirty  Years'  War.

The government of the state of  Lower  Saxony decided to set up a university in  Osnabrück in 1970, and by 1973 had laid down the legal basis for such an institution.  The university opened for the summer semester in 1974 as a successor institution to the  Adolf  Reichwein  Teachers'  College, which had occupied the former palace of the  Prince- Bishopric since 1953.

The main building of  Osnabrück  University is the baroque castle (built 1667-1675), formerly home and office to the  Prince- Bishop of  Osnabrück, nowadays housing mainly university administration.  It is located close to the city center.  In summer, the (mostly grass-covered) castle court is used for open air cinema and concerts.

Most faculty buildings are scattered in close vicinity of the castle.  Sport stadium and gymnasium are a bit farther away; the mathematical and natural-scientific faculties as well as the botanical garden are located in the western part of the city in the borough " Westerberg" (the " Western  Mountain", which is rather a hill than a mountain).  The campus at  Westerberg is in parts shared with the neighbouring  University of  Applied  Sciences.  The distance between castle and the  Westerberg campus is about 1.2 miles.

The  University of  Osnabrück consists of ten schools ( Fachbereiche) and four interdisciplinary institutes.  Schools are split up into subjects or institutes or both.The  Paderborn  University ( German:  Universität  Paderborn) is one of the fourteen universities of higher learning in  North  Rhine- Westphalia state of  Germany.  It was founded in 1972 and over 17,421 students were enrolled at the university as of  December 2011.  It offers 105 different degree programmes.  The  Paderborn  University ranks high in the areas of  Computer  Science,  Business  Management and  English.  The number of students enrolled at the university has steadily increased in recent years, and as a result, the university is continuously expanding and updating the infrastructure.

Particularly notable is the newly established  Master of  Arts program in  Comparative  Literature in the faculty of  Cultural  Studies.  The university houses the  Paderborn  Center for  Parallel  Computing that supports research activities in wide areas of  Computational science and  Engineering.

The university has several winners of the  Gottfried  Wilhelm  Leibniz  Prize awarded by the  German  Research  Foundation (DFG).  One such notable winner is the  Romanian mathematician  Preda  Mihăilescu who was awarded the prize in  April 2002.

In 2006, the computer science program was ranked among the top 3 programs in the most comprehensive and detailed ranking of  German universities by the  Centre for  Higher  Education  Development (CHE) and the  German weekly news magazine " Die  Zeit".  In the same year, the university was ranked among the leading institutions in terms of gaining research funds in the areas of electrical engineering, computer science and systems engineering by the  German  Research  Foundation.

The interdiciplinary research centers at the university include  Heinz  Nixdorf  Institute,  Paderborn center for  Parallel  Computing,  Paderborn  Institute for  Scientific  Computation,  Cooperative  Computing and  Communication  Laboratory (C- Lab) and  Software quality lab (S-lab).  Rail Cab is a research project by the  University of  Paderborn.  Its purpose is the examination of the use of linear engines for the propulsion of autonomous, rail mounted vehicles.

At the  Paderborn  University, a number of  Student  Groups exist and meet regularly. A St A ( Allgemeiner  Studierenden  Ausschuss) is the board of  Student  Representatives, who, through their engagement, have an influence on university politics and organisation and run certain campus facilities such as the photocopiers.  Student  Faculty  Committees ( Fachschaften) protect the interests of other students in that department.  The “ Fachschaft” remains in constant contact with professors and other lecturers and passes on important information to students.  It offers help with timetable planning and is thus an important contact for all academic matters.  Eurobiz is a voluntary student group that helps international students to find their way around.  They organize weekend trips and farewell parties, university parties and several other (spontaneous) events during the semester.

The  Theological  Faculty, which was founded in 1614 by  Dietrich von Fürstenberg, is the oldest university in  North  Rhine  Westphalia. A regionally significant collection of paintings, kept in the rooms of the  Faculty, recalls the period of promoterism and of the  Archdiocese  Paderborn.

The  Paderborn  University has two campuses:

The main campus is located at the  Warburger  Street in  Paderborn.  Most lectures take place here.  The  Paderborn  University owns two student halls of residence, both of which are just off the main campus. They consists of several buildings separated by yards, providing the enough space to barbecue and play soccer during the summer.  The main campus also houses the library.  The university’s library also has an excellent reputation.  Because of its large selection of electronic media, and its long opening hours and lending periods, it is considered to be one of the best university libraries in the state.

The international office of the  Paderborn  University is interconnected with over 140 partner universities worldwide and offers a large variety of exchange programs.  The international office works closely with the student organization  Eurobiz e.V. which looks after incoming exchange students and introduces them to  Germany and the  German culture.

The Fürstenallee campus is located 5 km from the main campus and is connected to the main campus via the 'uni-line' bus.  Some academic activities of the computer science and  Systems engineering departments are held at the Fürstenallee campus.  Next to the Fürstenallee building is the world's biggest computer museum, the  Heinz  Nixdorf  Museum  Forum.  The museum exhibits historic computing technologies used during different eras of human civilization starting from 3000 BC to world war.  The Fürstenallee campus houses the research centers such as  Heinz  Nixdorf  Institute,  Cooperative  Computing and  Communication  Laboratory (C- Lab) and  Software quality lab (S-lab).

The following  Collaborative  Research  Centers of the  German  Research  Foundation (DFG) are established at the  University of  Paderborn:

The  University of  Paderborn consists of five faculties:

Department of  English and  American  Studies;  Department of  Educational  Sciences;  Department of  Protestant  Theology;  Department of  German  Studies and  Comparative  Literary  Studies,  History  Department;  Department of  Social and  Human  Sciences,  Department of  Catholic  Theology,  Department of  Art,  Music,  Textiles;  Department of  Media  Studies;  Department of  Romanic  Languages

Department of  Management;  Department of  Taxation,  Accounting and  Finance;  Department of  Business  Information  Systems;  Department of  Economics,  Department of  Business and  Human  Resource  Education;  Department of  Law.. They offer range of programs for  International students in a convenient way.

The faculty of  Science has three departments:  Department of  Physics;  Department of  Chemistry;  Department of  Sports and  Health.  The department of  Physics offers  Master of  Science and  Doctoral degree programs in  English and is fully accredited by ASIIN.  The research topic specializes in fabrication, characterization, spectroscopy, and applications of semiconductor nanostructures, optical communication, quantum computing and the theoretical understanding and modeling of the underlying physical phenomena.

Since the founding of the  University of  Paderborn in 1972, the university's mechanical engineering program has been continually evolving as a center for educating a new generation of high-performing engineers, as well as a hub of top-notch research; half a million  Euro per professor per year in research allocations and leading participation in two collaborative research centers are just two of the most visible signs of our involvement.  In addition, a variety of multifaced cooperations between  Mechanical  Engineering departments and local companies help to promote long-term innovation in the proud tradition of  German industry.



  The current research topics within the  College of  Mechanical  Engineering are:

Department of  Electrical  Engineering and  Information  Technology;  Department of  Computer  Science;  Department of  Mathematics

The  Computer  Science department of the  University of  Paderborn has a strong international research reputation. A ranking recently published by the  Association for  Computing  Machinery placed the department's  Software  Engineering the 16th best in the world, and top in  Germany.  The most recent  German CHE ranking placed  Paderborn's CS department among the top four CS departments in  Germany.  The  Department's partnerships with locally and globally operating IT companies such as  Siemens,  Wincor  Nixdorf, and SD&M as well as with the strong regional mechanical engineering industry in embedded systems, gives the students the unique opportunity of getting to know prospective employers even before they graduate.

Typical fields of activities for graduated electrical engineers are leading and executive positions in electrical and electronic industry, computer industry, communication techniques, automation engineering, energy supply industry, automotive and aerospace industry and also in scientific.

The department of  Philosophy is led by  Professor  Ruth  HagengruberThe  University of  Passau ( Universität  Passau in  German) is a public research university located in  Passau,  Lower  Bavaria,  Germany.  Founded in 1973, it is the youngest university in  Bavaria and consequently has the most modern campus in the state.  Nevertheless, its roots as the  Institute for  Catholic  Studies date back some hundreds of years.

Today it is home to four faculties and 38 different undergraduate and postgraduate degree programmes.

The university was established on 1  January 1973 by a resolution of the  Bayerischer  Landtag ( Bavarian  State  Parliament).  However its history goes back to 1622 when an  Institute for  Catholic  Studies was incorporated into the  Gymnasium founded by Fürst  Leopold in 1612.  In 1773, the school was renamed fürstbischöfliche  Akademie, highlighting its relationship to the bishop.  Nevertheless, in 1803 it was downgraded to a kurfürstliches  Lyzeum, which meant a loss of status.  After a period of abandonment, it was re-established as  Passauer  Lyzeum.

This lyceum grew over the years until it became a philosophical-theological university in 1923.  Under the  Nazi regime the university was forced to change its logo, but in 1950 a new seal was introduced, representing  Mary with  The  Child  Jesus vanquishing evil.  The strong religious symbolism of this logo was considered inappropriate for the new university and replaced with a neutral logo.  In 1969, the city council initiated negotiations to establish a university out of the old  Faculty.

The campus of the  University of  Passau is probably unique in  Germany.  With the exception of the  Department of  Catholic  Theology, which is in the  Old  Town, and a number of offices in the city centre, all faculties are situated on a single campus along a single street.  This is advantageous for the internal communication of students and staff, particularly because the university offers many interdisciplinary courses.  Hence, it is not uncommon for law courses to be held in the  Philosophicum ( Arts and  Humanities building) and vice versa.  The campus is stretched out along the left bank of the  Inn river, making it an idyllic place to study.  The gardens and meadows are very popular with students in the summer.

The  Nikolakloster building is the oldest building on campus, existing long before the university was established.  It is also the only building that breaks with the university's otherwise modern architecture.  Today, this former convent is home to the language centre.  On the opposite end of the campus are the IT  Centre (ITZ) building and the sports grounds.  The latest addition to the campus, inaugurated in 2014, is the  Centre for  Media and  Communication, which houses a state-of-the-art newsroom.

The university's sports facilities include four gymnasiums, a football pitch and an athletics field with a race track.

A wide range of sports courses are offered throughout the semester and are free to staff and students, including football, volleyball, basketball, rowing, martial arts and aerobics.

The  University of  Passau has an award-winning refectory with a seating capacity of 560.  The campus additionally has four cafeterias, which offer sandwiches, confectionery, coffee, soft drinks and – this being  Bavaria – beer.

The university's nursery is open to children of students and staff.  It is unusual for a  German university to have day care facilities, but the reasonably-priced service is well used by students with toddlers aged 1 to 3.

The library was established together with the university in 1978 and opened its doors to students and citizens of  Passau the same year.  The central library is the main library of the university and, together with the five faculty and institute libraries, constitutes the university's library system.  Its  Director is  Dr  Steffen  Wawra.  The university library currently has two million books and 3,050 journals.  There are a total of 1,000 desk spaces for library users in the reading rooms, which are open 16 hours a day.

The  University  Executive consists of the  President,  Professor  Carola  Jungwirth, the  Acting  Head of  Administration,  Mr  Thomas  Werrlein, and three  Vice  Presidents:  Professor  Ursula  Reutner ( International  Relations),  Professor  Harry  Haupt ( Research) and  Professor  Rainer  Wernsmann ( Teaching and  Studies).

The  Senate is the legislative branch of the university.  The president and vice presidents are senators ex officio, as are the deans of the faculties, and the university's gender equality officer.

The  University of  Passau has four faculties:  Law,  Business  Administration and  Economics,  Arts and  Humanities, and  Computer  Science and  Mathematics.  The  Faculty of  Arts and  Humanities is further subdivided into five departments, viz.  Catholic  Theology;  Education;  Cultural  Studies;  Governance and  Historical  Studies; and  Languages,  Textual  Analysis and  Media.

In 2010 the  Department of  Catholic  Theology and the  Chair of  Philosophy became inactive for a planned 15 years, a highly controversial decision, as the academic staff of the faculty had received numerous awards in recognition of their research achievements.  The  Department of  Catholic  Theology now offers catholic religious education as a specialisation for students enrolled in one of the teacher training programmes or the M.A. programme in  Caritas  Science.

The  University of  Passau is well-known beyond the borders of  Bavaria and  Germany for its international orientation and atmosphere.  The university maintains co-operative partnerships with some 200 foreign universities in the  Americas,  Europe,  Asia and  Australia, enabling students enrolled at the university to spend part of their studies abroad.  The partner universities include  King's  College and the  University of  Stirling in the UK, the  Autonomous  University of  Barcelona and  Autonomous  University of  Madrid in  Spain,  Lund  University in  Sweden,  Texas A&M  University in the  United  States, the  Universidad del  Salvador in  Argentina, the  University of  Santiago,  Chile, the  Université  Laval in  Canada,  Kyoto  Sangyo  University in  Japan,  Zhejiang  University and  Beijing  Foreign  Studies  University in  China,  Thammasat  University and  University  Chiang  Mai in  Thailand,  Universitas  Indonesia in  Indonesia as well as the  National  University of  Vietnam and the  Lahore  University of  Management  Sciences in  Pakistan and the  Indian  Institute of  Technology  Madras in  India.

The university supports a number of student groups in various fields of interest.  Among them are eight political groups, two drama societies, three university orchestras, two choirs, several NGO’s groups such as  Amnesty  International,  Unicef and AIESEC, several departments of specialised  European student organisations such as AEGEE and ELSA, five societies dedicated to fostering international relations and cultural exchange, several subject-orientated groups, an association of cultural studies students, a debating society, a student-run management consulting group, and three religious student groups.

Despite the wide range of sports offered in the  Sports  Center of the university, there are only two teams that play at a competitive level.  However, it should be kept in mind that unlike other countries,  Germany does not have a long tradition of inter-university sporting competitions.

Fraternities have a long-standing tradition in  Germany's student life, although the usage of the word carries very different connotations from that in the  United  States.  Students who are members of fraternities often have somewhat conservative political attitudes, sometimes combined with traditional religious views.  For this reason, fraternities are a contentious issue among students.  There are five fraternities in  Passau:

A nice tradition for first-year students in  Passau is a welcome reception in the refectory with typical  Bavarian foods:  Leberkäse,  Bavarian  Pretzels (which are different from the  American ones) and beer.  The welcome speeches are held by the president of the university and the mayor of  Passau.

Another traditional part of  Passau's student life are the  Orientation  Weeks, intended to acquaint new students with  Passau and its university.  During those weeks students are offered guided tours of the university, libraries, the city and of course the bars and clubs.The  University of  Potsdam is a public university in the  Berlin- Brandenburg region of  Germany.  It is situated across four campuses in  Potsdam and  Brandenburg.  Some faculty buildings are part of the  New  Palace of  Sanssouci which is known for its UNESCO  World  Heritage status.

The  University of  Potsdam is  Brandenburg's largest university and the fourth largest in the  Berlin- Brandenburg metropolitan area which is well known as one of the reputable education and research locations in  Germany and  Europe.  More than 8,000 people are working in scholarship and science.

In 2009 the  University of  Potsdam became a winner in the " Excellence in  Teaching" initiative of the  Stifterverband für die  Deutsche  Wissenschaft ( Business innovation agency for the  German science system).

The  University of  Potsdam was formed in 1991 by the amalgamation of the  Karl  Liebknecht  College of  Education and the  Brandenburg  State  College, as well as several other smaller institutions.  As the university in large part emerged from the  College of  Education, emphasis today is still placed on teacher training.

Some parts of the university are located in historical buildings that have been named as  World  Heritage  Sites by UNESCO.  The university library and the  Institute of  History can be found in a part of the commons in the park of  Sanssouci, at the  New  Palace, as can the  Institute of  Mathematics in the former stables.

The other campuses,  Babelsberg and  Golm, are also of historical interest.  The oldest buildings of the  Golm campus were built in the 1930s to house the  Luftwaffe's intelligence department.  After  World  War II the  College of  Law of the  East  German  Ministry for  State  Security moved in.

The current  Faculty of  Law is located in  Babelsberg/ Griebnitzsee in the former presidial and administrative buildings of the  German  Red  Cross (1939/40).  Other lecture halls and buildings were built in the 1950s directly behind the  Schloss  Babelsberg for the  Academy of  Justice and the  East  German state.

Being today the largest university in  Brandenburg, the  University of  Potsdam stretches across four campuses:

New  Palace,  Sanssouci:  Faculties of  Philosophy,  Institutes of  Mathematics and  Sports.  The university's main campus, which includes the  Auditorium  Maximum, is situated in the immediate proximity of  Park  Sanssouci.  The  Communs – the prestigious annexes of the  New  Palace are home to some of the institutes of the  Faculty of  Arts.  The eighteenth century baroque buildings, which disguise their former purpose as the  Palace's offices and service rooms with staircases, porticos, cupolas, and rich ornamentation, are currently home to the university's presidential office and administration.  The  Institutes of  Sports  Science and  Sports  Medicine as well as the  Institute for  Mathematics can be found on the  Campus  Am  Neuen  Palais.

Golm:  Faculties of  Humanities,  Mathematics and  Science.  Most institutes of the  Faculty of  Science as well as the  Human  Sciences  Faculty are located in  Potsdam- Golm, where state-of-the-art research facilities and architecturally intriguing buildings form one of the largest science parks in the region.  Three  Max  Planck  Institutes and two  Fraunhofer  Institutes as well as the start-up center GO:IN have already settled here.

Potsdam- Babelsberg/ Griebnitzsee:  Faculties of  Law,  Economics and  Social  Studies,  Institutes of  Computer  Science, the  Hasso  Plattner  Institute for  Software  Systems  Engineering.  Campus  Griebnitzsee is situated along the city border with  Berlin, not far from the famous  Babelsberg film studios, and houses the  Law  Faculty and the  Faculty of  Economics and  Social  Sciences.  The  Institute of  Computer  Sciences is also located here and benefits greatly from its proximity to the  Hasso  Plattner  Institute for  Software  Systems  Engineering, a completely privately funded co-institute of the  University of  Potsdam.  Other small institutes and departments exist in the  City of  Potsdam.  The  Botanischer  Garten  Potsdam is the university's botanical garden.

At the beginning of the winter semester of the 2008/2009 academic year, roughly 20,000 young people were studying at the  University of  Potsdam.  The largest number of students were enrolled at the  Faculty of  Philosophy, 5,934 (30%), with 5,324 (27%) at the  Faculty of  Mathematics and  Science. 58% of the students are female, and more than 2,000 are external students. 26% of the freshers come from  East  Germany, 14% from the  West and 14% from  Berlin, evaluated by the place where they obtained their entry requirements.  After a comprehensive evaluation of its research performance in 2007, the  University of  Potsdam nominated eight areas of distinction (" Profilbereiche") and one area of excellence in the field of  Cognitive  Sciences (" Exzellenzbereich") to award their international recognition and research productivity.  With interdisciplinary research agenda, the area of excellence links the departments of  Psychology,  Linguistics, and  Sports and  Health  Science. UP offers more than 100 degree programs in various fields, offered in  German as well as other languages, notably  French and  English.

As is common in  Germany, the  University of  Potsdam's teaching and research programmes are carried out along the lines of faculties.  The university contains the following faculties:

The  Law  Faculty's curriculum offers the basic and required courses necessary to become a fully qualified lawyer.  This training includes civil law, criminal law, and public law.  At  Potsdam, the areas of concentration in research and teaching comprise the fundamentals of law, civil judicature, business law, international law, public administration as well as business, tax, and environmental criminal law.  All these areas offer ample opportunity for specialized study.  Additional events for training and continuing education for practitioners in the municipal realm are offered by the  Institute for  Local  Government  Studies and in international relations by the  Human  Rights  Centre.  Furthermore, a  German- French law program exists in cooperation with  University  Paris  Ouest- Nanterre/ La Défense.

In recent years, the  University of  Potsdam's  Philosophical  Faculty has redefined itself in the spirit of cross-disciplinary cultural studies.  Research and teaching at the  Institutes for  Religious  Studies,  Jewish  Studies,  Jewish  Theology,  Philosophy,  History,  Classical  Philology,  German  Studies,  English and  American  Studies,  Romance  Studies,  Slavic  Studies as well as  Art and  Media are devoted to a broad understanding of culture that is defined by including all aspects of human life.

Drawing from the broad range of faculty specialties, the thematic concentrations of " Cultures in/of  Mobility," " Forms of  Life and the  Know  How of  Living" as well as " Region and  Identity in  Europe" were created.  This emphasis in regard to content encourages interdisciplinary cooperation, but it also incorporates perspectives that are outside the  Philosophical  Faculty's traditional subject canon.  The  Focus  Area  Unsettled  Cultures, for example, investigates among others the history and cultural practice of  Judaism,  Christianity, and  Islam and thereby combines different areas of study, such as theology, literature, ethics, medicine, and cosmology.

In the spirit of research-based teaching, new academic programs such as  Mobility  Studies are being developed to complement the already existing interdisciplinary  Master's programs in  Jewish  Studies,  Communications  Linguistics,  Military  Studies,  European  Media  Studies as well as others.  Furthermore, the faculty highly values the intensive support of young scholars.  The graduate colleges, graduate schools, and externally funded projects under the auspices of the  Philosophical  Faculty offer young scholars the opportunity for interdisciplinary and international cooperation.

With the  Cognitive  Sciences and the  Educational  Sciences, the  Faculty of  Human  Sciences includes two of the interdisciplinary focus areas of the  University of  Potsdam that operate beyond faculty boundaries.  The  Cognitive  Sciences' excellence is based predominantly on the  Collaborative  Research  Centre " Information  Structure:  The  Linguistic  Means for  Structuring  Utterances,  Sentences and  Texts."  Empirical research is currently being expanded in the educational sciences, and it is closely linked to teaching.  In the education and training of aspiring teachers in all faculties, the  Faculty of  Human  Sciences occupies a central role.

The " Area of  Excellence  Cognitive  Sciences" and the " Focus  Area  Educational  Sciences" are divided into further research clusters and teaching units.  Instruction in the departments of psychology, linguistics, sports, and health science is organized into educational science and teacher training.  The research emphases are language, action and behavior, health, professional and popular sports, school and classroom as well as teaching across the life span.

In the future, the existing potentials in the area of health sciences and prevention will be developed into another focus area.  The research area in health is currently already well connected with the support systems for professional sports.  The  Faculty of  Human  Sciences mediates between theory and real life in a variety of ways.  It is a service provider for the city of  Potsdam and the federal state of  Brandenburg.  It maintains several consultation centers for psychotherapy and speech therapy as well as a university clinic.  The university clinic is currently licensed as an examination center of the  German  Olympic  Sports  Confederation.  Ultimately, a regional health network will be developed in cooperation with other service providers.

Furthermore, the faculty is actively striving for more quality in training students by establishing national and international  Master's and graduate programs and by developing a system of quality assurance in teaching.

With business administration and economics, political and administrative sciences, and sociology as fields of study, the  Faculty of  Economics and  Social  Sciences has continuously renewed itself and created its own unique and independent brand label.  Research and teaching are closely intertwined.  The faculty is considered one of the most important  German institutes for research, training, and consulting in the areas of policy research and administrative sciences.  Another concentration in the field of innovation and technology is currently being developed.

Following a multi-theoretical approach, researchers are investigating the interactive relationship between politics, economy, and institutions at different levels and in different fields of activity.  The interdisciplinary approach allows for a study of the interplay between the economy, public and private institutions, and policy-making.  Problems of governance between state, economy, and civil society are just as much a concern as problems of governance within the very differentiated public sector.  Political and administrative scientists, sociologists, and economists are working on collaborative projects.  The interplay of different research approaches and methods creates empirical and theoretical knowledge that transmits a complex and differentiated picture of socioeconomic, cultural, and political developmental processes in modern societies—domestically as well as internationally.

The  Faculty is very engaged in linking research and teaching to practice.  Therefore, the outcomes of research in the areas start-up, consulting, and innovation directly benefit the faculty's  Institute for  Start-up and  Innovation (BIEM CEIP), a central service institution for aspiring entrepreneurs.  The  Institute for  Local  Government  Studies (KWI) conducts collaborative research with the  Law  Faculty in examining issues faced by municipalities in the new Länder and offers continuing education to its elected officials.  Furthermore, the faculty's  Potsdam  Center for  Public  Policy and  Management (PCPM) ensures active national and international knowledge transfer with its research and consulting projects as well as opportunities for academically-focused continuing education.  The  German  Center for  Higher  Education  Development considers the  Master’s and  Ph.D. programs offered through the PCPM to be among the very best in  Europe.  Among these are the EAPAA-accredited international postgraduate  Program in  Public  Policy and  Management for public sector professionals in  English language with the (MPM)  Master of  Public  Management and its three streams:  Public  Policy and  Administration (PPA),  Global  Public  Policy (GPP) and  Geo Governance (GG), the  German- French  Master of  European  Governance and  Administration European  Governance and  Administration (MEGA) and the  Executive  Master of  Public  Management (EMPM)  Program with the  Hertie  School of  Governance.

Under its roof, the  Faculty of  Science at the  University of  Potsdam contains the  Institutes for  Biochemistry and  Biology,  Chemistry,  Nutrition  Sciences,  Geography,  Earth and  Environmental  Sciences,  Computer  Sciences,  Mathematics,  Physics,  Astronomy as well as the  University of  Potsdam  Botanical  Garden.  Especially the study programs in  Geoecology,  Geoscience,  Nutrition  Science,  Polymer  Science, and  Software  Systems  Engineering are in high demand.

The faculty has been strong in gaining external funding and has established future-oriented concentrations and productive core areas in research and teaching.  Five of the university's eight focus areas are part of the  Faculty of  Science:  Earth  Sciences,  Functional  Soft  Matter,  Functional  Ecology and  Evolution,  Complex  Systems, and  Plant  Genomics/ Systems  Biology.  The faculty's own concentrations, such as teacher training in mathematics and natural sciences, sensibly complement the focus areas by supporting their interconnectedness and contribute to their continuous advancement and renewal.

The close cooperation between the natural sciences and extramural research institutions in the  Berlin- Brandenburg region, already intended in the  University of  Potsdam's founding concept, was praised very early on by the  German  Council of  Science and  Humanities.  The collaboration with several institutes of the  Max  Planck  Society, the  Fraunhofer  Gesellschaft, the  Helmholtz  Association, the  Leibniz  Association, and the  Hasso  Plattner  Institute for  Software  Systems  Engineering exemplify this extensive networking.  Currently, there are more than 40 joint professorships with these institutions.

Within faculties, teaching and research activities may be further decentralised through departments, graduate schools or institutes.  For example,

Tuition fees at  University of  Potsdam vary, depending on nationality and programme of study.  For  German and EU/EEA students there is currently no tuition fee, however, several additional fees such as for the students union as well as mandatory public transportation tickets for students have to be paid.  For non-EU/EEA students tuition fees may apply.

For both EU/EEA students as well as non-EU/EEA students a variety of financial assistance and scholarships is available.  The  University of  Potsdam does not provide scholarships directly.  Among others, the  German  Academic  Exchange  Service ( Deutscher  Akademischer  Austauschdienst – DAAD) offers a very extensive scholarship programme.  Students or post-graduates can apply for a wide variety of scholarships, but the conditions and opportunities vary according to the country of origin and field of study.  Other scholarship providers also have varying prerequisites regarding country of origin, field of study, prior academic performance, the duration of the scholarship, etc.

The prerequisites and the weighting of the various criteria for stipends are determined by the individual profiles of the foundation providing for the scholarships.  For example, one’s previous marks or grades are weighted differently by the various foundations.  For some foundations, previous marks are weighted as the main criteria, and the social situation of the applicant is given significantly less weight.  For other scholarships, good marks are important in order to receive a scholarship, but this does not mean that an applicant qualifies for one.  Many foundations give significant weight to financial need, engagement in the civil society, or a developed personal profile.  Willingness to participate in the respective foundation's programme is also important to some foundations.  Information is available at  University of  Potsdam for students wishing to apply.

A cooperation among the universities in  Berlin ( Humboldt  University of  Berlin,  Technical  University of  Berlin,  Free  University of  Berlin) and  University of  Potsdam exists, which allows students of these universities to take courses at the respective partner universities, in accordance with their curriculum.

The  University of  Potsdam is well connected: it has found scientific partners of international standing with the  Potsdam- Institute for  Climate  Impact  Research and the  German  Institute for  Human  Nutrition – both institutes of the  Leibniz  Association – as well as the  Helmholtz  Centre  Potsdam –  German  Research  Centre for  Geosciences.  Close cooperation and joint professorships also exist with the  Max  Planck  Institute for  Molecular  Plant  Physiology, the  Max  Planck  Institute of  Colloids and  Interfaces, the  Max  Planck  Institute for  Gravitational  Physics, and many other research institutions.  Last but not least, the university collaborates with both institutes of the  Fraunhofer  Gesellschaft in the  Science  Park  Potsdam- Golm, a research campus that is growing in significance far beyond  Germany's borders.  Similarly, the  Hasso  Plattner  Institute of  University of  Potsdam in cooperation with  Stanford  University offers a design school based in  Stanford  University, the  Hasso  Plattner  Institute of  Design.  While it is located at  Stanford  University, various partnerships as well as a degree is offered through  University of  Potsdam.  The university offers a number of  German courses, organizes intercultural training workshops, and matches up tandem-partners who want to learn one another's language.  Selected study programs, in particular several  Master programs, may also be completed in  English.

International partnerships offer opportunities to spend one semester or a full year at one of many partner universities.  Jewish studies in  Israel, sports management in  Australia, language and politics in  Moscow, or an excursion to  Montana to visit the geographical center of the earth – the choice among about 300 partnerships is great.  From a regular course of study or an internship to a double degree or  Ph.D. studies – everything is possible.  Potsdam is a popular choices both for the  Erasmus and  Tempus as well as for the  Fulbright program and the international programs of the  German  Academic  Exchange  Service (DAAD).

Several exchange programs and partnerships exist.  An institution at  Potsdam's  Law  Faculty that is unique in  Germany is the  German- French law program, which is operated in cooperation with the partner  University  Paris  Ouest- Nanterre/ La Défense.  At the  University of  Potsdam students can participate not just in an exchange program, but they also have the opportunity in their first two years in the standard  German law program to complete an additional, self-contained program of study in  French law.  This  French part of the program is taught by  French visiting scholars from the partner university and is conducted in  French.

The following are  English-language programs of study.  These are programmes of study in which all courses and coursework is carried out in  English:

Several executive masters are offered and have reached a high popularity, offered entirely or partly in  English.

University of  Potsdam offers international students the completion of a doctoral thesis.  Doctoral students in  Germany generally pursue their doctorates in the context of individual research projects, rather than in structured programmes as in many other countries.  Upon completion of a dissertation project, one receives a doctoral degree for individual scholarly achievements.

The prerequisite for doctoral studies is an above average graduate degree,  Master's of  Arts,  Master's of  Science,  Diploma,  Staatsexamen or another equivalent degree.  The doctoral examination board ( Promotionsausschuss) of your institute of interest, or the  Dean of the  Law  Faculty respectively, is responsible for determining questions of equivalency.  Writing a dissertation should take no longer than three years.  After submitting a dissertation and receiving a positive assessment, doctoral students are required to take part in a disputation.Ravensburg- Weingarten  University of  Applied  Sciences ( German:  Hochschule  Ravensburg- Weingarten) is a public university in the city of  Weingarten, in south of  German state of  Baden-Württemberg.  The university was founded in 1962 and tracks advanced fields in  Applied  Physics and  Process  Engineering,  Electrical  Engineering and  Computer  Science,  Automotive and  Mechatronics  Engineering,  Mechanical  Engineering and  Business &  Technology  Management as well as  Social  Work and  Healthcare  Management.  This university has a very good reputation regarding engineering studies.  According to CHE ranking,HS  Weingarten is among the top 30 universities throughout  Germany and is number one in  Baden-Württemberg state.

In 1962,  Baden- Wuerttemberg  Parliament decided to build a  State  School of  Engineering (SIS) in  Ravensburg with two department,  Mechanical  Engineering and  Physical  Engineering.  In 1967, the first students graduate as engineers.  In 1971,  The  State  Schools of  Engineering become  Fachhochschulen, i.e.  Universities of  Applied  Sciences.  In 1974,

The  Ministry of  Education requests the establishment of an  Electronics department and planning of the program  Business  Administration in  February 1974.  Introduction of the  Electronics program as part of the  Physical  Engineering department in  May 1974.

Today,  Ravensburg- Weingarten  University offers more than 25 postgraduate and graduate degree programs under  Faculty of  Electrical  Engineering and  Computer  Science,  Faculty of  Mechanical  Engineering,  Faculty of  Technology and  Management and  Faculty of  Social  Work,  Health and  Nursing supported by more than 500 academic staff members.

In cooperation with the near  Weingarten  University of  Education which specializes in teachers' education, the university provides some courses leading to a double graduation with a  Bachelor's degree in  Engineering and an additionally possibility to obtain a university degree in  Teaching at professional schools.

The university is divided into several departments which provide a broad range of  Engineering,  Social  Work and  Management courses:The  University of  Regensburg ( German:  Universität  Regensburg) is a public research university located in the medieval city of  Regensburg,  Bavaria, a city that is listed as a UNESCO  World  Heritage  Site.  The university was founded on  July 18, 1962 by the  Landtag of  Bavaria as the fourth full-fledged university in  Bavaria.  Following groundbreaking in 1965, the university officially opened to students during the 1967–1968 winter semester, initially housing faculties in  Law and  Business  Sciences and  Philosophy.  During the summer semester of 1968 the faculty of  Theology was created.  Currently, the  University of  Regensburg houses eleven faculties.

The university actively participates in the  European  Union's SOCRATES programme as well as several TEMPUS programmes.  Its most famous academic, the previous  Pope  Benedict XVI, served as a professor there until 1977 and formally retains his chair in theology.

Attempts to establish a university in  Regensburg had been advocated since the late 15th century.  In 1487,  Duke  Albrecht IV of  Bavaria and the  Regensburg city council sent a petition to  Pope  Innocent VIII to establish a university within the city.  The idea was rejected, failing for economic reasons.  In 1562,  Croatian  Protestant reformer  Matthias  Flacius again advocated the creation of a university in the city, arguing that a university in  Regensburg would spread the ideas of the  Protestant  Reformation to  Slavic lands.  Protestant intellectuals again tried to establish a university in 1633, though their attempts were blocked by the arrival of imperial troops from orders of  Holy  Roman  Emperor  Ferdinand II.  Following the end of the  Second  World  War, a group of concerned intellectuals and academics in  Eastern  Bavaria established the  Association of the  Friends of the  University ( Verein der  Freunde der  Universität  Regensburg e. V.) in 1948, advocating the creation of a university for  Regensburg and the  Upper  Palatinate region.  The association's advocacy proved successful in 1962 when the  Bavarian  Landtag authorized the creation of the university.

Construction began with the official groundbreaking ceremony on  November 20, 1965.  The first lectures began during the 1967 winter semester, with the faculties of  Law and  Business  Sciences and  Philosophy as the first schools for students.  The following year, the faculty of  Catholic  Theology opened to students.  Since 1967, the university has expanded to twelve faculties, including medicine, biology, psychology, and chemistry.  The  German  Research  Association has deeply supported a number of research projects in the university, including the fields of biochemistry and microbiology.

The university's most famous faculty member is  Pope  Benedict XVI, who taught from 1969 until he was appointed  Cardinal and  Archbishop of  Munich in 1977.  In 2006, one year following his election to the papacy,  Benedict XVI returned to the  University of  Regensburg to make a highly controversial lecture that garnered the university international attention.  The  Pope is still listed as a  Professor of the university.

Another famous former faculty member,  Karl  Stetter, worked as head of the  Archaea  Center and the  Department of  Microbiology between 1980 and 2002.  Among his discoveries were  Pyrococcus furiosus in 1986,  Aquifex aeolicus,  Aquifex pyrophilus, and  Nanoarchaeum equitans, discovered in 2002.

Situated entirely on one central campus, the university is located south of  Regensburg's inner city on a small incline south of the  Danube  River, and directly adjacent to the  Regensburg  University of  Applied  Sciences and the A 3 autobahn.  The university itself consists of 150 hectares (280 acres) of land.

Including the affiliated university hospital, the  University of  Regensburg has approximately 4,200 employees including 312 professors, and teaches more than 20,000 students (summer term 2015).  The university's reputation and attractiveness is enhanced by the 2,000-year-old town of  Regensburg, its scenic countryside, the  Donautal ( Danube  Valley), a high density of bars and the nearby heights of the  Bavarian  Forest.  Brisk cultural life both in the city and on campus provide great recreational opportunities, enhanced by a number of nearby lakes.

The university is structured into eleven faculties:

On  March 31, 2010, the mayor of  Regensburg made an official application to the  Bavarian government that an additional  Technical  University suggested by the government should go to  Regensburg.  Moreover: preceding to the necessary measures the existing university could simply get an additional  Technical  Faculty as some universities in  Bavaria have, e.g. the university of  Erlangen- Nuremberg.  In any case, the addition of such a faculty would also make sense for the  Regensburg university, since in the city and its surroundings there exists a lot of engineering industry.

With its eleven faculties, the university employs a wide variety of traditional programmes of study.  The university was one of the first  German universities to introduce modularized study programs following the  Bologna model.  Since 2000, most study programs have introduced bachelor's as well as master's degrees in recent years.  Doctoral degrees can be obtained in must subjects as well.

Cross-disciplinary co-operation, the strengthening of key competences, project orientation, and a flexible study programme are the hallmarks of these new degree programmes, preparing students for many modern career options.  For international students of law, the university offers an LL.M. course in  German  Law.  All students, irrespective of their specialisation, are offered a number of programmes which can be taken to complement their main field of study.  Among these are data processing, general language courses, specialised language courses (business, law etc.), courses in oral presentation and communication, and a programme in intercultural communication.

Key fields of activity include the  Natural  Sciences ( Physics,  Bio- Sciences,  Chemistry and  Pharmacy), the  Humanities ( History,  Philologies) and  Medicine.  The  German  Research  Association (DFG) currently sponsors two collaborative research centres, four research units and five interdisciplinary graduate colleges.  The university participates in well over 30 EU projects.

In detail: according to a recent documentation of the DFG, the physics faculty of the university in 2009 held the first place in  Bavaria, and the third one in  Germany, concerning the financial support.  Moreover, the high-energy physicists of the faculty form the center of a large international cooperation on a basic theory in the field, the  Quantum  Chromodynamics, with a large special computer, called QPACE.

Due to its geographical location near the former  Iron  Curtain border of the  Czech  Republic, the university considers itself a bridge between  East and  West.  Working with partners in  Europaeum, the  University of  Regensburg has set up an interdisciplinary centre for research and teaching on all aspects pertaining to  Central,  Eastern and  Southeastern  European countries.  As part of the focus on  Eastern  Europe the  University of  Regensburg offers degrees like  Suutheastern- European  Studies and  Eastern  European studies.  The university is also home for the  Bavarian  University  Centre for  Central,  East and  Southeastern  Europe (BAYHOST) which works on deepening cooperation between universities of the region and the state of  Bavaria.  The university closely cooperates with other institutions focusing on  Eastern  Europe in the city like the  Institute for  Eastern and  Southeastern  European studies, the  Ostrecht institute (institute for  Easteuropean legal studies)and the  Hungarian institute among others.  These instituitions are all part of the centre for competence on  Eastern  Europe  Regensburg.

The  University of  Regensburg is ranked among the best 400 universities worldwide:

The  Handelsblatt  Ranking 2014, one of the most relevant rankings für business administration in  Germany, ranked the university's  Department of  Business  Administration among the best 25 in  German-speaking  Europe.

On campus, students are provided with a large central cafeteria ( Mensa) and several smaller ones, a pizzeria, a bank, a bookshop as well as various other shops.  The university has been adapted to the needs of the disabled as far as possible and accommodation of the same standard is available.  The open-access  University  Library, with its modern online catalogue and loan system, holds over 3.15 million books and periodicals.  All students receive a PIN code for the computers, which grants free access to e-mail services and the  Internet in all computer rooms throughout the campus.  Students also have access to the services provided by the  University’s  Computer  Centre in any one of the more than 20 computer pools on campus and in most of the student dormitories.

Student residences, a number of which cater to students with special needs, are located in close proximity to the campus as well as in the city centre itself.

In addition to its academic function, the  University of  Regensburg encourages numerous extracurricular activities on campus.  Various choirs, musical ensembles and art exhibitions (drawings, prints, sculpture and photography) testify to a dynamic cultural life on campus.  Every year, more than ten student drama groups stage their productions in the theatre on campus.  Well equipped audiovisual studios cater to students with an interest in film and music production.

The  Sports  Centre provides recreational courses for students.  The choice of courses ranges from aikido to capoeira, and from kayaking to volleyball.

The  University’s  International  Office offers international students well developed orientation and integration programmes.

The university currently maintains links with over 130  European academic institutions.  The number of partner universities in countries of  Central and  Eastern  Europe,  Cyprus and the  Baltic  States has steadily grown ever since the initiation of the programme for associated countries.  The university now has over 20 partners in these countries.  Favourite destinations for students are and have always been  Great  Britain, followed by  France,  Italy and  Spain.  Universities of  Kanazawa,  Japan and  Korea  University,  Seoul provide opportunities for  Regensburg students to partake in teaching programs in  English language and, depending on their level of language training, as teachers themselves.  Two  Latin  American universities, the  Universidad de los  Andes, Mérida,  Venezuela, and the  Universidad de  Guanajuato,  Mexico, provide several university places.The  University of  Rostock ( Rostock  University,  German:  Universität  Rostock) is a public university located in  Rostock,  Mecklenburg- Vorpommern,  Germany.  Founded in 1419, it is the third-oldest university in  Germany.  It is the oldest and largest university in continental northern  Europe and the  Baltic  Sea area, and 8th oldest in  Central  Europe.  It was the 5th university established in the  Holy  Roman  Empire.  The university has been associated with five  Nobel laureates.  Famous alumni include  Nobel laureates:  Albrecht  Kossel,  Karl von  Frisch, and  Otto  Stern; theoretical physicists:  Pascual  Jordan and  Walter H.  Schottky.  It is a member of the  European  University  Association.  The language of instruction is usually  German, but  English for postgraduate studies.

It was founded in 1419 by confirmation of  Pope  Martin V and thus is the oldest university in  Northern  Europe.

In  Germany, there are only five universities that were founded before, while only  Heidelberg and  Leipzig operated continuously since then:  Heidelberg (1386),  Cologne (1388),  Erfurt (1392/1994), Würzburg (1402/1582) and  Leipzig (1409).  That makes  Rostock  University the third oldest  German university in continuous operation.

Throughout the 15th century, the  University of  Rostock had about 400 to 500 students each year, a large number at that time.  Rostock was among the largest universities in  Germany at the time and many of its students also came from the  Low  Countries,  Scandinavia or other states bordering the  Baltic  Sea.

In the course of political struggles and pressure from the church, the university moved to  Greifswald in 1437 and remained there until 1443.  From 1487 to 1488 teaching took place in Lübeck.

A few years later the city of  Rostock, its university also became  Protestant in 1542.  Humanism and  Lutheranism were defining characteristics of the university.  After the  Thirty  Years'  War (1618–1648), the  University of  Rostock played only a regional role.  When the "ownership" of the university moved from the city to the state ( Grand  Duchy of  Mecklenburg- Schwerin) in 1827, however, things changed for the better.  The end of the 19th century saw generous building activity in  Rostock's alma mater and the university soon regained its old reputation amongst  German universities.

On the occasion of the 500th anniversary of the university,  Albert  Einstein and  Max  Planck received honorary doctorates on 12  November 1919.  This made the  University of  Rostock the world's first institute of higher learning to award this honour to  Einstein.  Interestingly enough, the doctorate was not revoked during the  Nazi rule in  Germany (1933–1945), despite such orders by the  Nazis.  The reason for this remains unknown.  David  Katz,  Hans  Moral (de) (committed suicide) and others lost their posts in 1933.

The end of the  Second  World  War in 1945 brought many changes.  The university, now finding itself in the  Soviet  Zone of  Germany (the later  German  Democratic  Republic), was re-opened on 24  February 1946.  The  Faculty of  Law was closed in 1951, a Faculty of  Agriculturewas introduced in 1950 and in 1951 saw the opening of a  Department of  Shipbuilding (renamed  Faculty of  Technology in 1963).  The  University of  Rostock was the first traditional university in  Germany to open a technical faculty.  In 1952, the  Faculty of  Aviation was opened, but eventually relocated to  Dresden.

In 1976 the university was renamed  Wilhelm- Pieck- Universität after  Wilhelm  Pieck, the first president of the  German  Democratic  Republic.  The renaming was annulled after the  German reunification.

In 1978, the university engaged in a partnership with the  Cochin  University of  Science and  Technology (CUSAT), to help design the course structure and support the development of the  Department of  Ship  Technology at CUSAT.  Also, a group of  Rostock faculty members were sent to  Cochin  University of  Science and  Technology to improving the university's teaching facilities, remaining there until the late 1980s.  The prominent place of  Cochin  University of  Science and  Technology's  Department of  Ship  Technology in the world maritime industry is thus largely credited to the extensive support of the  University of  Rostock.

The regional economy has improved as over 800 companies launched from the university since 1991.  External funding for research increased between 2005 and 2010 by 83% and currently is above 47 million  Euros per year.  Over 500 million  Euros has been invested in the university infrastructure since 1991, which will reach 750 million  Euros by 2015.  The number of young people from the  West  Germany and international students who choose  University of  Rostock as a study location, are increasing every year.  International  Students from 99 different countries have been studied at  University of  Rostock.  In 2007, the  University of  Rostock gathered its research capacities into three profile lines:  Life,  Light &  Matter (LLM),  Maritime  Systems, and  Aging of  Individuals and  Society.  In 2010 a fourth was added, called  Knowledge- Culture- Transformation.  Life,  Light &  Matter develops new concepts for future technologies based on atomic and molecular processes in connection with laser optics and life sciences.  Maritime  Systems unites oceanographers, engineers, humanities scholars, agricultural and social scientists, economists and lawyers.  Aging of  Individuals and  Society has as its target a self-determined lifestyle in old age.  Knowledge- Culture- Transformation deals with media and the representation of knowledge, transformation of knowledge, knowledge and interculturalism as well as knowledge and power.

University of  Rostock was ranked in 2014: 401-500 in the world in the  Shanghai  Jiao  Tong  University's  Academic  Ranking of  World  Universities.  The CWTS  Leiden  Ranking ranked  University of  Rostock as 327th in 2012, 379th in 2013, and 405th in 2014.  However, since 2010, QS  World  University  Rankings has not listed  University of  Rostock within the top 500 universities.  Moreover,  Times  Higher  Education  World  University  Rankings has not listed  University of  Rostock within the top 400 universities since 2011.  In 2014, the  Center for  World  University  Rankings (CWUR) ranked  University of  Rostock as 481st in the world, 352nd in  Quality of  Teaching, 210th in  Quality of  Faculty, 478th in  Alumni  Employment, 433rd in  Publications, 380th in  Broad  Impact, and 338th in  Patents.  According to the SC Imago  Institutions  Rankings (SIR),  University of  Rostock was ranked in the world in 2014: 557 in  Output, 238 in  Innovative  Knowledge, 325 in  Technological  Impact, 691 in  Scientific  Talent  Pool, 658 in  Excellence with  Leadership, and 585 in  Website  Size.  The  National  Taiwan  University  Ranking (NTUR) published by the  Higher  Education  Evaluation and  Accreditation  Council of  Taiwan (HEEACT) ranked  University of  Rostock as 429th worldwide in 2014.  According to the  University  Ranking by  Academic  Performance (URAP),  Rostock  University was ranked as 34th in  Germany and 428th in the world in 2014.  Webometrics ranked  University of  Rostock at 555 worldwide.

The  Academic  Ranking of  World  Universities (ARWU) ranked  University of  Rostock among 101-150 in  Chemistry in the world in 2014.  In 2014, the CWTS  Leiden  Ranking ranked  University of  Rostock in the world as 269th in  Natural  Sciences, 336th in  Life  Sciences, 463rd in  Medical  Sciences, 449th in  Mathematics,  Computer  Science and  Engineering, and 245th in  Cognitive  Science.  The  National  Taiwan  University  Ranking (NTUR) ranked  University of  Rostock as 175th worldwide in  Chemistry in 2014.  According to the  University  Ranking by  Academic  Performance (URAP),  Rostock  University was ranked 224th worldwide in  Chemistry in 2014.

According to a nationwide ranking survey conducted by the  University of  Munich, the  University of  Rostock is among the top-ten of most start-up friendly universities in  Germany in 2009.  This ranking was determined based on an investigation into 59  German universities.  The study shows that  University of  Rostock improved its position from 17th in 2007 to 10th in 2009.  The study also suggests that  University of  Rostock performed well in the area of qualification and counselling of start-ups and in the field of coordination and mobilization of start-up potential.  In winter semester 2013/14, 14,417 students were matriculated at  Rostock  University.

In recent years, the  University of  Rostock has undergone significant conceptual and organisational changes, which included the bundling of competences and research activities in the interdisciplinary, cross-faculty departments of the  Interdisciplinary  Faculty.  Scientific priorities of the faculties have improved by including the interdisciplinary-based research units:  Collaborative  Research  Centres,  Research  Training  Groups, and  Research  Units.

The university cooperates with several independent research centres.  Among those:

Like many continental  European universities, the  University of  Rostock is divided into academic faculties ( German:  Fakultät).  Those can be sub-divided into academic departments ( German:  Institut) and chairs ( German:  Lehrstuhl).

It is divided into the following nine faculties:

The  Rostock  University  Library consists of 3 divisional libraries and several specialized libraries provides scientific literature and information for research, education and study.  The university statistics shows about 3 million physical volumes recorded in the catalogue.  It provides access to electronic journals (EZB) and specialized databases (DBIS).  The library possesses large special collections of culturally historical and scientifically historical old books.  In the  Patents and  Standards  Centre (PNZ), all DIN norms and regulations as well as the VDI guidelines are provided.  Moreover, the library also contains the university archive and the art treasure collection.

The  Rostock  Student  Services ( German:  Studentenwerk  Rostock) provides accommodation for newly arrived international students who plan to study at the  University of  Rostock and the  Rostock  University of  Music and  Theatre.  International students, who have not lived or studied in  Germany, are considered for a  Starter  Package service.  However, short-time students and students on a programme (ERASMUS;  Sokrates) are given a low priority, while postgraduate students cannot use this service.

The university operates a hospital, which has several teaching and research institutes.  Among those are the  Albrecht  Kossel  Institute for  Neuroregeneration.

Although cooperation and student exchanges are possible with many more institutions, the university has signed cooperation agreements with the following international universities:

In nearly six centuries numerous notable students and professors have had ties with the university, for instance:The  University of  Siegen ( German:  Universität  Siegen) is a public research university located in  Siegen,  North  Rhine- Westphalia.  The  University was founded in 1972. 19,414 students were enrolled at the university as of the year 2015.  The  University is part of the  Deutsche  Forschungsgemeinschaft, a society of  Germany's leading research universities.

Siegen’s heritage as a centre for education and research dates back to the 16th century.  In 1536,  William I,  Count of  Nassau- Dillenburg charged  Saxon educator and theologian  Erasmus  Sarcerius with the task of establishing a  Latin school.  During the period 1594 to 1599/1600 and 1606 to 1609, the  Calvinist- Reformed  Herborn  Academy ( Academia  Nassauensis) moved from  Herborn to  Siegen, where it was accommodated in the buildings of the lower castle.

In 1853,  Wiesenbauschule landscaping school was established, which soon gained a reputation outside of its local area.  Here, landscaping and land improvements including irrigation techniques and the drainage of meadows were taught, so as to help enhance the yields from farmland.  This was of particular importance in the  Siegerland region because the high demand for charcoal for the regional ironworks meant that most areas were woodland.  As a result, limited areas were suitable for cattle breeding, so that research into enhancing the yields from the limited amount of meadowland had to be researched.

Following  World  War  Two, the school’s focus shifted towards civil engineering, and, in 1962, it was renamed  Staatliche  Ingenieurschule für  Bauwesen ( State  School of  Civil  Engineering).

The next academic facility to be set up in  Siegen (formerly located at  Weidenau/Hüttental) was the Pädagogische  Hochschule  Siegerland ( Educational  University  Siegerland), established in 1964.  In 1965, it became the  Siegerland section of Pädagogische  Hochschule  Westfalen- Lippe ( Educational  University  Westfalen- Lippe), which marked its transformation into a scientific university.

On 1  August 1972, the comprehensive university development act led to the setting up of a comprehensive university at  Siegen/Hüttental, along with four other comprehensive universities in  North  Rhine- Westphalia.  The Pädagogische  Hochschule  Siegerland and  Siegen- Gummersbach  University of  Applied  Sciences which had schools based at  Siegen and  Gummersbach merged to form the new  Siegen comprehensive university.  In 1980,  Siegen comprehensive university was renamed  Universität- Gesamthochschule ( University- Comprehensive  University).  The  Gummersbach location was transferred, on 1  June 1983, to  Cologne  University of  Applied  Sciences.  Then, on 1  January 2003, the form of ”comprehensive university“ was abandoned, and the existing comprehensive universities became regular universities.  Since then, the university has been called  University of  Siegen.

In 1996, the  University/ Comprehensive  University of  Siegen was the first  German university to take part in the ” Institutional  Quality  Audit  Programme” of the  Conference of  European  Rectors (CRE) and went on to implement the auditors’ recommendations step-by-step.  University of  Siegen sees itself as a modern university with a focus on basic research, practical training and contributing towards structural change in the district of  Siegen- Wittgenstein and adjacent regions.

In line with the political objectives which led to the establishment of comprehensive universities, the  University of  Siegen is a hallmark for democracy, equal opportunities, transparent professional and scientific education as well as an international outlook.  The reform approach inherent to the comprehensive university was put into practice through integral programmes, such as the innovative integrated diploma programmes “ Media planning, development and consultancy” and “ German and  European commercial law”.

Within the framework of the  Bologna process, the  University of  Siegen implemented the  Bachelor/ Masters system early on, with the aim of completing the set-up of this model in all faculties during winter semester 2006–2007.  The last remaining diploma programmes were actually transformed into  Bachelor/ Masters programmes during winter semester 2008–2009.  This move enables students’ achievements to be comparable and drives the international orientation of programmes.  In addition, modern language training with a focus on partnerships abroad is being introduced and enhanced.

The  University of  Siegen is increasingly committed to working with alumni and organizes alumni meetings at regular intervals.

University of  Siegen offers in total 126 degree programmes across four faculties:

The university has a combined undergraduate and graduate student population of around 17,500.  Approximately 13.5% of these students are foreigners.  The  University of  Siegen offers a large variety of undergraduate, graduate, and postdoctoral degree programs at its four faculties in 144 fields of study.  As common among  German universities, the academic year consists of summer and winter terms (semesters).  The winter term runs from  October 1 to  March 31, while the summer term runs from  April 1 to  September 30.  However, lectures and classes usually do not run for the full duration of these periods and allow for breaks in spring and fall.  German universities enjoy government subsidies, and as a result of legislative reform, beginning in  Fall 2011 the  University of  Siegen will no longer charge tuition fees.

There are numerous student clubs and organizations, among them a student-run radio station,  Radius 92.1, and a student television program,  Campus TV.  Siegen is situated in one of the most densely forested areas in  Germany and offers fine opportunities for leisure and outdoor activities.  The university provides student housing in its various dormitories, run by the  Studentenwerk.  Additionally, there are further dormitories in  Siegen which are operated by other institutions as well as partnerships with elderly people.  Many students find private living arrangements, such as  Wohngemeinschaften (shared apartments).

The  International  Office is the main contact for questions concerning the international course of studies, the international academy cooperation and the international academic exchange.  Additionally the  International  Office guides and mentors international applicants for a place at university with all kinds of questions around the course of studies and life in  Siegen. A number of activities for international students facilitates their integration and help students to find new friends.  Each semester the  International  Office offers a  Welcome week where international students are guided through their first steps in  Siegen (walk through the city, opening a bank account, registration for medical insurance etc.).  During the semester a program including trips to nearby cities, intercultural trainings or high rope courses is offered.

The  University of  Siegen is a campus university with some 92,000 m² of floor space.  Buildings are distributed across three core areas in  Siegen ( Haardter  Berg hill,  Emmy- Noether- Campus and administration based at  Herrengarten).

Most university buildings are on the north-eastern side of  Siegen, in the  Weidenau district.  Facilities at  Haardter  Berg include the  Adolf- Reichwein- Straße campus, which has the largest lecture halls, the central canteen, the central library as well as a part of the centre for information and media technology.  Some 500 m south-east is the Hölderlinstraße campus, which accommodates the centre for information and media technology, the central course guidance service and a departmental library.  Another 400 m south, at  Paul- Bonatz- Straße, is the engineering  Campus, the modern-day descendent of the former engineering school.  Artur- Woll- Haus on the eastern slope of  Haardter  Berg hill, which opened on 25  March 2003, accommodates the guest house and the externally funded research facilities.

Some 5 kilometres (3.1 mi) south-west of  Haardter  Berg, at  Fischbacherberg hill is the  Emmy- Noether- Campus, which, since 1999, has been home to the mathematics and physics faculties. 1 kilometre (0.62 mi) west of  Haardter  Berg, on the borders of the  Weidenau and  Geisweid districts, is the former brewery, where the art faculty is located.  Here, art students create practical work, including painting and photography, and exhibitions are held on a regular basis.  The university administration and student services are located in the former  Siegen inland revenue offices at  Herrengarten, right in the city centre, whilst the international office can be found in  Siegen’s former telegraph office.  The city, the university and the government are working together to put  Siegen’s lower castle completely at the university’s disposal to accommodate facilities and faculties.

Artur- Woll- Haus is an exceptional building, which was designed by  Dutch architects rau architecten.  It consists of an arc-shaped central unit with three wings that resemble a tug.  The cost of construction was around €8.6 million.

The  University of  Siegen was planned together with other universities in  North  Rhine- Westphalia, so that a similar style and even some of the same building modules can be found at universities of  Duisburg- Essen,  Paderborn und  Wuppertal.The  University of  Skövde ( Swedish: Högskolan i  Skövde) is a university ("högskola") in  Skövde,  Sweden.  It has approximately 11,000 students.  Lecturers and other educational staff number 414, with approximately 137 persons in administration as of  August 2013.  The university is structured in five schools:

The university was established in 1977, and one of its educations[clarification needed] achieved university status in 1983.

The university was originally situated in former barracks of the  Swedish  Armed  Forces, which were modernised and modified for the needs of the university.  Most of the university is now located in modern buildings.  The campus is located alongside the  Gothenburg- Stockholm railway, near the center of  Skövde.

In addition to the core buildings, there are two other related buildings: the  Gothia  Science  Park, an incubator for start-ups and considered to be an interface for science and local business, and the  Boulogner, a student union house for recreation.The  University of  Southern  Denmark ( Danish:  Syddansk  Universitet, literally  South  Danish  University, abbr. SDU) is a university in  Denmark.  It has campuses located in  Funen,  Southern  Jutland and  Zealand.  The university offers a number of joint programmes in co-operation with the  University of  Flensburg and the  University of  Kiel.  Contacts with regional industries and the international scientific community are strong.

The  University of  Southern  Denmark was established in 1998 when the  Odense  University, the  Southern  Denmark  School of  Business and  Engineering and the  South  Jutland  University  Centre were merged.  The  University  Library of  Southern  Denmark was also merged with the university in 1998.

In 2006, the  Odense  University  College of  Engineering was merged into the university and renamed as the  Faculty of  Engineering.  In 2007, the  Business  School  Centre in  Slagelse ( Handelshøjskolecentret  Slagelse) and the  National  Institute of  Public  Health ( Statens  Institut for  Folkesundhed) were also merged into the  University of  Southern  Denmark.

Princess  Marie took over the role of the patron of the  University in 2009.

The university is governed by a board consisting of 9 members: 5 members recruited outside the university form the majority of the board, 1 member is appointed by the scientific staff, 1 member is appointed by the administrative staff, and 2 members are appointed by the university students.  The  Rector is appointed by the university board.  The rector in turn appoints deans and deans appoint heads of departments.  There is no faculty senate and faculty is not involved in the appointment of rector, deans, or department heads.  Hence the university has no faculty governance.

As a national institution the  University of  Southern  Denmark (SDU) comprises five faculties –  Humanities,  Science,  Engineering,  Social  Sciences and  Health  Sciences totaling 32 departments, 11 research centers and a university library.  University  Library of  Southern  Denmark is also a part of the university.

Research activities and student education make up the core activities of the university.  The  University of  Southern  Denmark also has widespread cooperation with business and industry in the region and considerable activities within continuing education.  The university offers a number of degrees taught in  English; examples include  European  Studies and  American  Studies.

The faculty of all six campuses comprises approximately 1,200 researchers in  Odense,  Kolding,  Esbjerg, Sønderborg,  Slagelse and  Copenhagen; approximately 18,000 students are enrolled.  The  University of  Southern  Denmark offers programmes in five different faculties -  Humanities,  Science,  Engineering,  Social  Sciences, and  Health  Sciences.  It incorporates approximately 35 institutes, 30 research centres, and a well-equipped university library.

The  University offers a wide range of traditional disciplines as well as a broad selection of business and engineering studies.  In recent years the number of options available has been considerably expanded.  Examples include the introduction of a very successful  Journalism programme in  Odense,  Information  Science in  Kolding, and a  Mechatronics  Engineering programme in Sønderborg.  The educational environments on the  Jutland campuses have also been strengthened through the creation of new programmes such as a bachelor's degree in  Sociology and  Cultural  Analysis, a bachelor's degree  Business  Administration with  Sports  Management, a bachelor's and  Public  Health  Science in  Esbjerg,  Danish and  English  Language  Studies in  Kolding, and a variety of engineering programmes and  European  Studies in Sønderborg.  Moreover, the  University of  Southern  Denmark is the only university in  Scandinavia that offers a degree programme in chiropractic studies ( Clinical  Biomechanics).

The  University focuses on areas such as communication, information technology, and biotechnology.  Other areas of research is pursued through a number of national research centres at the  University of  Southern  Denmark.  Examples include  The  Hans  Christian  Andersen  Center, the  Centre for  Sound  Communication, and the  Danish  Biotechnology  Instrument  Centre.  Odense in particular focuses on research within the field of geriatrics.

Co-operation with the business community has resulted in three substantial donations from some of the giants in  Danish industry:  Odense is the home of the  Maersk  Mc- Kinney  Moller  Institute for  Production  Technology, where robot technology is one of the many research areas.  The  Mads  Clausen  Institute in Sønderborg is engaged in the design and development of software for integration in intelligent products of the future.  Thanks to funding from  Kompan and  Lego, a research environment for the investigation of child behaviour and development has also been established

The  University of  Southern  Denmark has seven campuses, mainly located in the southern part of  Denmark: campus  Odense on the island of  Funen with the nearby engineering campus, campus  Slagelse and campus  Copenhagen on the island of  Zealand, as well as campus  Kolding, campus  Esbjerg and campus Sønderborg (campus named  Alsion) on the  Jutland peninsula.

The physical buildings of SDU cover an area of 272,554 m2 (2007), a figure that has increased from 181,450 m2 in 1999 when the university merger was effectuated.

The university's campus in  Odense is considered the main campus of the  University of  Southern  Denmark, both because of its relative size and because the central administration of the university is situated there.  Being an epitome of  Danish functionalist architecture, the campus has been nicknamed  Rustenborg (which roughly translates as  The  Rusty  Castle) by students and staff, because it is built from gray concrete slabs clad with weathering steel, in an early architectural use of that material.  Its architecture has also given rise to other nicknames and slang expressions among students and staff.  For instance, the administrative block goes by the name of Førerbunkeren ("Führerbunker"), referring to the architectural similarities between the university building and a stereotypical military building.  The students' magazine is simply called  Rust.The  University of  Stavanger ( Ui S) is a university located in  Stavanger,  Norway and established in 2005.  It has about 10 100 students and 1300 administration, faculty and service staff as of autumn 2014.  It is organised in three faculties, including two national centres of expertise and the  Museum of  Archaeology.

The university offers doctorates in:  Literacy;  Risk  Management and  Societal  Safety;  Educational  Sciences;  Health and  Medicine;  Management,  Economics and  Tourism;  Sociology,  Social  Work and  Culture &  Society;  Chemistry and  Biological  Science;  Offshore  Technology;  Petroleum  Technology;  Risk  Management and  Societal  Safety-  Technical/ Scientific  Approach; and  Information  Technology,  Mathematics and physics.

The  University of  Stavanger became a member of the  European  Consortium of  Innovative  Universities (ECIU) in  October 2012.The  University of  Stuttgart ( German:  Universität  Stuttgart) is a university located in  Stuttgart,  Germany.  It was founded in 1829 and is organized into 10 faculties.

It is one of the top nine leading technical universities in  Germany (TU9) with highly ranked programs in civil, mechanical, industrial and electrical engineering.

The  University of  Stuttgart is especially known for its excellent reputation in the fields of advanced automotive engineering, efficient industrial and automated manufacturing, process engineering, aerospace engineering and activity-based costing.  The academic tradition of the  University of  Stuttgart goes back to its probably most famous graduate student:  Gottlieb  Daimler, the  Inventor of the automobile.

Along with the  Technical  University of  Munich, the  Technical  University of  Darmstadt and  Karlsruhe  Institute of  Technology, it represents one of the four members of the  South  German  Axis of  Advanced  Engineering and  Management.  These four universities, in combination with RWTH  Aachen are the top five universities of the aforementioned TU9.

From 1770 to 1794, the  Karlsschule was the first university in  Stuttgart.  Located in  Stuttgart- Hohenheim, it has since 1818 been the  University of  Hohenheim and is not related to the  University of  Stuttgart, except for some joint activities.

What is now the  University of  Stuttgart was founded in 1829, and celebrated its 175th anniversary in 2004.  Because of the increasing importance of the technical sciences and instruction in these fields, from 1876 the university was known as the  Technical  College.  In 1900 it was awarded the right to grant doctoral degrees in the technical disciplines.  The development of the courses of study at the  Technical  College of  Stuttgart led to its renaming in 1967 to the present-day " Universität  Stuttgart".  With this change of name came along a built-up of new fields, such as history of science and technology and the social sciences, and the extension of existing ones, such as history and art history.

Since the end of the 1950s, a part of the university has been located in the suburb of  Stuttgart- Vaihingen.  Most technical subjects (computer science, engineering, etc.) are located in  Vaihingen, while the humanities, the social sciences, architecture, and similar topics are still located in the city center campus.

Universität  Stuttgart is consistently ranked among the world's top universities in various international ranking surveys such as the  Academic  Ranking of  World  Universities and the  Times  Higher  Education  Supplement which ranks over 1000 universities worldwide.  As of 2014,  University of  Stuttgart is ranked 85th in the world in the field of  Engineering &  Technology according to QS  World  University  Rankings.  University of  Stuttgart is one of the best universities in the fields of mechanical, aeronautical, and manufacturing engineering (48th worldwide and 3rd best in  Germany) and has been ranked several times as one of the best engineering universities in  Germany.

The university is divided into 10 faculties:Eberhard  Karls  University, Tübingen ( German:  Eberhard  Karls  Universität Tübingen;  Latin:  Universitas  Eberhardina  Carolina) is a public research university located in the city of Tübingen,  Baden-Württemberg.  It is one of  Germany's most famous and oldest universities, noted in medicine, natural sciences, and the humanities.  In the area of  German  Studies ( German:  Germanistik) it has been ranked first among all  German universities for many years, and is known as a centre for the study of theology and religion. Tübingen is one of five classical "university towns" in  Germany; the other four being  Marburg, Göttingen,  Freiburg and  Heidelberg.  The university is associated with some  Nobel laureates, especially in the fields of medicine and chemistry.

The  University of Tübingen was founded in 1477 by  Count  Eberhard V ( Eberhard im  Bart, 1445–1496), later the first  Duke of Württemberg, a civic and ecclesiastic reformer who established the school after becoming absorbed in the  Renaissance revival of learning during his travels to  Italy.  Its first rector was  Johannes  Nauclerus.

Its present name was conferred on it in 1769 by  Duke  Karl  Eugen who appended his first name to that of the founder ( Karls being the possessive form of  Karl).  The university later became the principal university of the kingdom of Württemberg.  Today, it is one of nine state universities funded by the  German federal state of  Baden-Württemberg.

The  University of Tübingen has a history of innovative thought, particularly in theology, in which the university and the Tübinger  Stift are famous to this day.  Philipp  Melanchthon (1497–1560), the prime mover in building the  German school system and a chief figure in the  Protestant  Reformation, helped establish its direction.  Among Tübingen's eminent students (and/or professors) have been the astronomer  Johannes  Kepler; the economist  Horst Köhler ( President of  Germany);  Joseph  Ratzinger ( Pope  Benedict XVI), poet  Friedrich Hölderlin, and the philosophers  Friedrich  Schelling and  Georg  Wilhelm  Friedrich  Hegel. " The Tübingen  Three" refers to Hölderlin,  Hegel and  Schelling, who were roommates at the Tübinger  Stift.  Theologian  Helmut  Thielicke revived postwar Tübingen when he took over a professorship at the reopened theological faculty in 1947, being made administrative head of the university and  President of the  Chancellor's  Conference in 1951.

The university rose to the height of its prominence in the middle of the 19th century with the teachings of poet and civic leader  Ludwig  Uhland and the  Protestant theologian  Ferdinand  Christian  Baur, whose circle, colleagues and students became known as the "Tübingen  School," which pioneered the historical-critical analysis of biblical and early  Christian texts, an approach generally referred to as "higher criticism."  The  University of Tübingen also was the first  German university to establish a faculty of natural sciences, in 1863. DNA was discovered in 1868 at the  University of Tübingen by  Friedrich  Miescher.  Christiane Nüsslein- Volhard, the first female  Nobel  Prize winner in medicine in  Germany, also works at Tübingen.  The faculty for economics and business was founded in 1817 as the " Staatswissenschaftliche  Fakultät" and was the first of its kind in  Germany.

The  University played a leading role in efforts to legitimize the policies of the  Third  Reich as "scientific".  Even before the victory of the  Nazi  Party in the general election in  March 1933, there were hardly any  Jewish faculty and a few  Jewish students.  Physicist  Hans  Bethe was dismissed on 20  April 1933 because of non- Aryan origin.  Religion professor  Traugott  Konstantin  Oesterreich and the mathematician  Erich  Kamke were forced to take early retirement, probably in both cases the non- Aryan origin of their wives.  At least 1158 people were sterilized the  University  Hospital.

In 1966,  Joseph  Ratzinger, who would later become  Pope  Benedict XVI, was appointed to a chair in dogmatic theology at Tübingen, where he was a colleague of  Hans Küng.

In 1970 the university was restructured into a series of faculties as independent departments of study and research after the manner of  French universities.

After the death of Tübingen's influential  Marxist philosopher  Ernst  Bloch, who has served as a role model for many  German students, Tübingen was unofficially renamed as " Ernst- Bloch- University".  Until today the unofficial university logo shows a clenched fist - a popular gesture of student protest since  Bloch.

The university made the headlines in  November 2009 when a group of left-leaning students occupied one of the main lecture halls, the  Kupferbau, for several days.  The students' goal was to protest tuition fees and maintain that education should be free for everyone.

In  May 2010 Tübingen joined the  Matariki  Network of  Universities (MNU) together with  Dartmouth  College (USA),  Durham  University (UK),  Queen’s  University ( Canada),  University of  Otago ( New  Zealand),  University of  Western  Australia ( Australia) and  Uppsala  University ( Sweden).

The  University of Tübingen undertakes a broad range of research projects in various fields.  Among the more prominent ones in the natural sciences are the  Hertie  Institute for  Clinical  Brain  Research, which focuses on general, cognitive and cellular neurology as well as neurodegeneration, and the  Centre for  Interdisciplinary  Clinical  Research, which deals primarily with cell biology in diagnostics and therapy of organ system diseases.  In the liberal arts, the  University of Tübingen is noteworthy for having the only faculty of rhetoric in  Germany – the department was founded by  Walter  Jens, an important intellectual and literary critic.  The university also boasts continued pre-eminence in its centuries-old traditions of research in the fields of philosophy, theology and philology.  Since at least the nineteenth century, Tübingen has been the home of world-class research in prehistoric studies and the study of antiquity, including the study of the ancient  Near  East; a particular focus of the research in these areas at the  University of Tübingen has been  Anatolia, e.g., through the continued excavations of the university at  Troy.

The  University of Tübingen is not a campus university, but is spread throughout the town: Tübingen is one of five classical "university towns" in  Germany.  The other four are  Marburg, Göttingen,  Freiburg and  Heidelberg.  In Tübingen there are four areas with a major concentration of university institutions.

Accommodation provided by the Tübingen  Studentenwerk is in several locations throughout the town.  The largest of the eleven halls of residence are at  Waldhäuser  Ost (1,700 rooms) and in the  Französisches  Viertel (500 rooms).

The  University  Library of Tübingen is not just available to those affiliated with the university, but also to the general public.  The library provides more than three million individual volumes and more than 7,600 journals.  Apart from the main library, more than 80 departmental libraries containing an additional three million volumes are also associated with the university.

The main lending library is located on  Wilhelmstraße and consists of several different parts which are connected through corridors and walkways:

The university is made up of 14 faculties, some of which are subdivided into further departments.

The university is governed by three separate bodies sharing different functions and duties.  However, some persons serve in more than one body.

The  Rectorate is the executive component of the university's governing body.  The current rector,  Professor  Bernd  Engler, is supported by four deputies consisting of three prorectors and one provost.  All are also permanent members of the university senate.

The  Senate forms the legislative section of governance.  Apart from the members of the rectorate, it includes the equal opportunities commissioner, the deans and 20 elected members representing the professors, lecturers, students and non-academic staff.  Two advisors represent the university's teaching hospitals.

The  University  Council ( Hochschulrat or  Universitätsrat) has 13 members, including its president and vice-president as well as five further internal and six external members.

The  University of Tübingen is associated with several  Nobel laureates, especially in the fields of medicine and chemistry.  In 2012 the  University of Tübingen was awarded for its future concept " Research –  Relevance –  Responsibility" in the course of the  German  Universities  Excellence  Initiative.  The award brings huge additional research funds for five years.  The university may also call itself  German " Eliteuniversität" ( Elite  University) now.

According to  The  Times  Higher  Education  Supplement (2016) Tübingen is one of the 78 best universities in the world and one of the 48 world-beating universities in  Arts and  Humanities.  As a consequence of this,  The  Economist understands Tübingen as "home to a famous university".  Since some of the most influential  Protestant and  Catholic theologians of the 20th century have been trained there, the  University of Tübingen is especially renowned in the fields of  Theology and  Philosophy of  Religion.  The  Eberhard  Karls  University is the only university in the  German-speaking world that teaches rhetoric as an independent subject of study.  Moreover, in the area of  German  Studies ( German:  Germanistik) Tübingen has been ranked first among all  German universities for many years.

Tübingen has numerous highly renowned partner universities all over the world.  Many of them are members of the  Association of  American  Universities.  The partner schools include inter alia  University of  Cambridge,  University of  St.  Andrews,  University of  Edinburgh,  University  College  London in  Great  Britain,  National  University of  Singapore,  University of  Hong  Kong,  Peking  University in  Asia,  Mc Gill  University in  Canada,  Yale  University,  University of  Michigan,  Georgetown  University,  University of  Texas at  Austin,  University of  California,  Berkeley,  University of  North  Carolina at  Chapel  Hill,  Brown  University, and  Princeton  Theological  Seminary in the US.  Students from the  University of Tübingen can study within the framework of study exchange programs (without tuition fees) at these foreign partner universities, too.  More than 1,000 students from Tübingen study in more than 500 foreign partner universities each year.

As the university's students make up roughly a third of the total population of Tübingen, the town's culture is to a large extent dominated by them.  Consequently, there is a slump of activity during university holidays, particularly over the summer, when a large number of otherwise regular events do not take place.

Around 30  Studentenverbindungen, the  German type of fraternities, are associated with the university.  While famous for their parties, public academic lectures and the yearly " Stocherkahn- Rennen" punting-boat race on the  Neckar river, some of them are the subject of ongoing controversy surrounding alleged rightwing policial views, leading to strong criticism from leftist groups.  The university itself takes a neutral stance on this issue.

Also closely linked to the university are a number of student societies representing mainly the arts and political parties.  Most notable are a number of choirs as well as student theatre groups affiliated with the faculty of  Modern  Languages, some of which perform in foreign languages.  Radio  Uniwelle Tübingen is the university's radio station, airing seven hours of programmes a week produced by students under the supervision of staff employed by the university.

The university also offers gym and sports classes called  Hochschulsport.  Since Tübingen has a department of sports science with a broad range of facilities, students of other subjects have the possibility to participate in various kinds of sports courses in teams or as individuals.  Furthermore, even exotic sports, such as parachuting or martial arts, are offered.  Students may attend courses either for free or at reduced rates.  The sports department is located close to the  Wilhelmstraße area of university buildings and is served by a number of frequent bus routes.

Unlike in some major cities, student discounts are not widely available in Tübingen.  Cinemas and the town council's public library in particular do not offer discounts for students, and there are only a handful of restaurants which have reduced lunch deals.  However, students may benefit from the  Semesterticket, a heavily discounted public transport season pass offering six months of unlimited travel on trains and buses in the naldo  Verkehrsverbund transport association for approximately €62.50.  The  Landestheater Tübingen theatre and all public swimming pools also have discounts for students.

Nightlife in Tübingen is centered on the numerous pubs in the old town along with a number of clubs, most of which dedicate themselves to non-mainstream music.  During the semester, the  Studentenwerk-owned  Clubhaus at the centre of the  Wilhelmstraße university area hosts the weekly  Clubhausfest on  Thursday nights.  This popular, free-entry club night is organized and promoted by student societies and  Fachschaft student representative bodies and all proceeds go towards their activities in support of students.

Faculty members and alumni who have been awarded with the  Nobel  Prize:

This list also includes alumni of the Tübinger  Stift, which is not a part of the  University, but has a close relationship with it.

Tübingen's elitist self-conception is often controversially discussed.  Since almost all  German universities are public (most private universities do not have the official  German " Universitätsstatus"), and therefore mainly paid by taxes and generally egalitarian, there is no  German  Ivy  League of institutions of higher education.  Moreover, the  German  Universities  Excellence  Initiative is a publicity-laden fund for specific research projects only.  It aims to promote cutting-edge research, to create outstanding conditions for young scientists at universities, and to strengthen some selected universities more than others in order to raise their international visibility.

This self-conception is also of historical interest: from 1900 to 1929 members of the  Studentenverbindungen in Tübingen already understood themselves as the  German national elite ("Führer der  Nation").  Every  May until 2008, duelling fraternities of the "Tübinger  Waffenring" organized a big torchlight procession and sang traditional  German and  Germanic songs in the old town (" Maieinsingen"), accompanied by huge anti-nationalistic counter-demonstrations of left-wing student groups.

In 1969, the progressive political and theological climate alienated  Professor  Joseph  Ratzinger (who later became  Pope  Benedict XVI) and led to his short-lived tenure at the university.  According to the  Swabian daily newspaper, the  Schwäbisches  Tagblatt,  Ratzinger was theologically "traumatized" at the  University of Tübingen.  In  Aus meinem  Leben:  Erinnerungen he describes the liberalism of Tübingen's student activism as "the cruel countenance of this atheistic devoutness" ("das grausame  Antlitz dieser atheistischen  Frömmigkeit").The  University of  Trier ( German:  Universität  Trier), in the  German city of  Trier, was founded in 1473.  Closed in 1798 by order of the then  French administration in  Trier, the university was re-established in 1970 after a hiatus of some 172 years.  The new university campus is located on top of the  Tarforst heights, an urban district on the outskirts of the city.  The university has six faculties with around 470 faculty members.  In 2006 around 14,000 students were matriculated, with 43.5% of the student body male and 56.5% female; the percentage of foreign students was approximately 15.5%.

In 1455  Pope  Nicholas V granted the  Archbishop of  Trier,  Jakob I. von  Sierck (de), the right to establish a university.  The  University of  Trier was founded  March 16, 1473.  Battling financial problems for decades, the university was acquired by the  Jesuits in 1560.  They emphasized the philosophical and theological faculties at the expense of medicine and law.  In the 1580s  Peter  Binsfeld was president of the university.  In the 1730s  Johann  Nikolaus von  Hontheim was also a faculty member.  After the  French occupation of the  Rhineland, the  French administration ordered the universities of  Cologne,  Mainz,  Bonn and  Trier closed, the last closing on  April 6, 1798.

After a hiatus of some 172 years the  University of  Trier was re-established in 1970 by the state of  Rhineland- Palatinate as a constituent member of the twin  University of  Trier- Kaiserslautern, with 360 students matriculating in  Trier on  October 15, 1970.  In 1975 the twin university was split into two independent universities.  In 1977 the current university campus in  Tarforst was opened and during the 1990s a nearby former  French military hospital complex (dating from the  French military presence in  Germany following the  Second  World  War) was acquired by the university and now forms a second campus, dubbed  Campus II.

The modern university still uses the seal of the historical university in its corporate design.  It contains the  Latin motto " Treveris ex urbe deus complet dona sophiae" ( God completes the favors of wisdom from the city of  Trier).  In 2000 an alternative logo incorporating that seal was introduced, but this met with resistance.

The university is divided into 6 faculties (" Fachbereiche").

There is also a  Faculty of ( Roman  Catholic)  Theology, affiliated to the university but administratively independent.  It currently has about 300 students.

While there is a considerable number of foreign students in  Trier, a large majority of students hail from  Rhineland- Palatinate and the adjacent  German states of  Saarland and  Northrhine- Westphalia.  This situation has been exacerbated by the introduction of tuition fees in all  German states except  Rhineland- Palatine, with the  University of  Trier having experienced an increase in the number of students from other  German states—especially the neighbouring states—matriculating or transferring there.  The SPD, which is currently the governing party in  Rhineland- Palatinate, does not at present plan to introduce tuition fees.

The  General  Students  Committee ( German:  Allgemeiner  Studierendenausschuss, or A St A for short)[when?] put forward a proposal to change the university's official name to the  Karl  Marx  University of  Trier ( German:  Karl- Marx- Universität  Trier), in honour of perhaps the city's most famous son.  Although the proposal was rejected by university authorities, the  General  Students  Committee still typically refers to the university as " Karl- Marx- Universität  Trier".The  University of  Tromsø -  The  Arctic  University of  Norway ( Norwegian:  Universitetet i  Tromsø –  Norges arktiske universitet; is the world's northernmost university.  Located in the city of  Tromsø,  Norway, it was established in 1968, and opened in 1972.  It is one of eight universities in  Norway.  The  University of  Tromsø is the largest research and educational institution in northern  Norway.  The  University's location makes it a natural venue for the development of studies of the region's natural environment, culture, and society.

The main focus of the  University's activities is on the  Auroral light research,  Space science,  Fishery science,  Biotechnology,  Linguistics,  Multicultural societies,  Saami culture,  Telemedicine, epidemiology and a wide spectrum of  Arctic research projects.  The close vicinity of the  Norwegian  Polar  Institute, the  Norwegian  Institute of  Marine  Research and the  Polar  Environmental  Centre gives  Tromsø added weight and importance as an international centre for  Arctic research.  Research activities, however, are not limited to  Arctic studies.  The  University researchers work within a broad range of subjects and are recognised both nationally and internationally.

On  January 1, 2009 the  University of  Tromsø merged with  Tromsø  University  College.  On  August 1, 2013 the university merged with  Finnmark  University  College to form  Universitetet i  Tromsø –  Norges arktiske universitet ( The  University of  Tromsø –  The  Arctic  University of  Norway), thereby adding campuses in  Alta,  Hammerfest and  Kirkenes.  On  January 1, 2016  Narvik  University  College and  Harstad  University  College merged with  Ui T -  The  Arctic  University of  Norway.  As of  January 2016 the university now has 6 campus locations in northern  Norway, the main campus being  Tromsø.

The ravens in the university's logo are  Huginn and  Muninn.  In  Norse mythology,  Hugin and  Munin travel the world for  Odin, bringing him news and information.  Huginn represents thought and  Muninn memory.  Ravens are an early  Norse symbol, used f.ex. on the raven banner.Ulm  University ( German:  Universität  Ulm) is a public university in the city of  Ulm, in the  South  German state of  Baden-Württemberg.  The university was founded in 1967 and focuses on natural sciences, medicine, engineering sciences, mathematics, economics and computer science.  With 9,188 students (summer semester 2013), it is one of the youngest public universities in  Germany.  Times  Higher  Education (THE) ranks it at position 16 among the world's top 100 universities under the age of 50 years in 2014, making it the highest-ranked young university in  Germany.

In 2007,  University of  Ulm was appreciated by  German  Universities  Excellence  Initiative and altogether financially endowed for  International  Graduate  School in  Molecular  Medicine.  In 2012,  University of  Ulm has been selected for 27th position by  Academic  Ranking of  World  Universities according to ratio of  Academic staff to students indicator.  The campus of the university is located north of the city on a hill called  Oberer  Eselsberg, while the university hospital has additional sites across the city.

The university is the youngest public university in the state of  Baden-Württemberg, which boasts several old, renowned universities in  Heidelberg (founded in 1386),  Freiburg (1457) and Tübingen (1477).  The idea was to create a university with a new approach in both research and teaching.  An important concept since the foundation of the university has always been to promote interdisciplinarity.  In the decades following the foundation, the spectrum of subjects has steadily been extended, and the university has grown significantly.

An important step in combining the strength of industrial and academic research was the realization of the idea of a science park around the main university campus.  Research centers of companies like  Daimler, BMW,  Siemens and in the past also  Nokia, AEG, have been established at the site, in addition to institutes of the university focusing on applied research.  Among other large research projects, the university features four  Collaborative  Research  Centers ( German:  Sonderforschungsbereiche), which are established on a competitive basis by the  German  Research  Foundation ( Deutsche  Forschungsgemeinschaft, DFG).  Third-party funding of research reached 67.5 million euros in 2009.

In 1998,  Ulm  University introduced an  International  Masters program in  English: M. Sc. in  Communication  Technology, which is the first of its kind in  Germany.  Since then, this program attracts students from different countries around the world. C- Tech  Program has research collaboration with many renowned  Universities around the world.

It also offers other  English programs, namely M. Sc. and  Ph.D. in  Molecular  Medicine, M. Sc. in  Advanced  Materials, M. Sc. in  Energy  Science and  Technology, M. Sc. in  Finance, M. Sc. in  Biology and M. Sc. in  Advanced  Oncology, the latter being an extra-occupational program.

In 2003, the  Ulm  University was involved in founding a private university in  Egypt, the  German  University in  Cairo.

Since 2007, the university has been participating in the  German  Universities  Excellence  Initiative with the newly founded  International  Graduate  School in  Molecular  Medicine  Ulm.

The university is composed of four divisions, which in  German universities traditionally are called faculties, and separate institutes.  The four faculties are the medical faculty, the engineering and computer science faculty, the natural science faculty and the mathematics and economics faculty. A university hospital is associated with the medical faculty.

The  University of  Ulm's campus is located on a hill on the outskirts of the city of  Ulm hosts a variety of public and industrial research and development centres, as well as three major hospitals - jointly referred to as the science park.  This close proximity of academic and industrial R&D is designed to improve interaction between industrial needs on the one hand and academic teaching and research on the other.  The industrial and academic research centres within the science park encompass diverse applications in material science, hydrogen and solar energy sources, biomedical engineering, artificial intelligence, advanced materials for the automotive industry, mobile communication systems, advanced semiconductor devices, and the use of lasers in medicine and metrology.  Students of the  Sciences often spend their internship in companies located close to the campus or work on their master's thesis projects in close cooperation with the industrial partners.

An overall planning concept for  Oberer  Eselsberg was developed with all involved parties on the basis of the land utilisation plan.  This includes sustainable enhancing of the campus by developing it into a centre of science and research, as well as a long-term plan for future areas of development.  This planning was commissioned by the city of  Ulm, in cooperation with the state.

In 2008, a total of 37 inventions were registered at the  University.  With 14 of the inventions, exploitation had been predefined in the form of a contract.  Ten inventions were absorbed and transferred with compensation to an industrial partner.  In 43 cases, invention procedures from previous years were either processed further or taken up again, e.g. monitoring invention compensation and licence payments, tracing payment of invention compensation and distribution of residues to the facilities, processing offers of protection right adoption, etc.  In 2008, a total of 45,173 euros were generated through the transfer of invention rights.  Of that, 15,224 euros were paid out to 25 inventors.

The  University has defined the following future-oriented areas as its concentrations:

The  University of  Ulm is divided into four faculties, each with its numerous scientific establishments, the institutes.  The faculties are headed by the deans' offices, which are responsible for coordinating student services.

In 2008, the  Academy again expanded its course programme, including a newly added programme entitled " Special  Pain  Therapy".  This is an 80-hour course following the curriculum of the  German  Medical  Association, which is taught in 14 themed blocks in four modules.  Another new offer is a three-semester programme in " Commercial  Mediation and  Organisational  Development", which consists of nine modules and follows the guidelines of the  Federal  Association for  Mediation in  Commerce and the  Workplace.  Within another newly integrated programme on intercultural training, the problems of intercultural communication and interaction were dealt with.  The aim here is to shorten the adaptation phase in a foreign culture during a stay abroad and thereby ease integration into the new studying or working environment.  In 2008, a total of 875 participants took advantage of the  Academy's course offerings.  The most popular in terms of participant numbers was again the " Compact  Seminar  Emergency  Medicine", followed by the course offerings from the  International  Center for  Advanced  Studies (ICAS) and the distance learning programmes in actuarial science.

The  Scientific  Computing  Centre  Ulm [ German:  Ulmer  Zentrum für  Wissenschaftliches  Rechnen (UZWR)] is an interdisciplinary research focus of the  University of  Ulm.  Application-oriented research questions in science and economy been solved with advanced numerical methods.  Overview of the services:

Collaborative  Research  Centres ( Sonderforschungsbereiche - SF Bs) are interdisciplinary research concentrations at one or more universities, which can be funded for up to 12 years.  The  University of  Ulm is a public institution.  As a major, innovative and forward-thinking employers in the  Ulm region with over 1,800 employees, the  University of  Ulm  University offers various facilities such as central  Universitäsverwaltung, communication and information center, workshop and scientific animal research center at attractive occupations.  The  Collaborative  Research  Centres are reviewed by the  German  Research  Foundation in a three-year rotation.

The first phase of the development of the GUC with support of the  University of  Ulm can be judged as finished highly successfully.  On the occasion of the celebration of 5 years GUC at the universities  Ulm and  Stuttgart the partners could be proud of the reached position:  In winter semester 2008/2009 nearly 6.800 students are studying at the GUC on an extensive campus with a new building opened recently.  In  October 2008, the first class in engineering and in pharmacy and biotechnology graduated together with the second class in management technology.  Now there are already around 800 GUC graduates who have very good job chances nationally and internationally.  Professor  Ashraf  Mansour,  Prime  Founder of the GUC and  Honorary  Senator of the  University of  Ulm, got the  Federal  Cross of  Merit of the  Federal  Republic of  Germany for his contribution to the  German- Egyptian relations.

In  October 2008 the 25 years old exchange with  Cairo  University was celebrated by a conference titled » Science for  Life« with the presence of an  Ulm delegation headed by  Vice president  Prof.  Dr. Dürre.  The long-lasting collaboration was the basis for the  Ulm participation in the » German- Egyptian  Science  Year 2007« and the follow-ups in 2008

The successful cooperation with  Chinese partner universities was strengthened.  Chinese partners send doctoral students predominantly to the  University of  Ulm with own scholarships and thus start building up a lasting research cooperation.  The » International  Graduate  School in  Molecular  Medicine  Ulm«, financed by the  Excellence  Initiative, held the second successful  Summer  Academy in  Wuhan at the campus of the partner university HUST, sponsored by the DAAD.  In  September 2008 the first  Ulm  Alumni  Clubs have been founded with the presence of an  Ulm delegation headed by the  Vice- President  Professor  Stadtmüller at the HUST  Tongji  Medical  Faculty and at the SEU in  Nanjing.

The internationalisation of teaching and research as well as international exchanges at the  University of  Ulm are covered by a spectrum of activities as the 25 years old university cooperation with the  Cairo  University, recent and however intensive exchanges with  Chinese partner universities and last but not least the partnership with the  German  University in  Cairo (GUC).  Student exchange programmes were expanded to reach across all the continents.  The university was able to win exceptional students and doctoral candidates by well-targeted marketing.  The  University of  Ulm currently holds 101 bilateral agreements with 79 partner universities in 19  European countries.  During 2008, a total of 43 students from these partner universities studied in  Ulm, while 54 students from  Ulm studied abroad at  European partner universities under the ERASMUS programme.  From overseas partners 38 students came to study at the  University of  Ulm for a full year and 51 students from  Ulm took part in our 27 overseas exchange programmes. A particularly large number went to  Canada and  Australia as well as to the US.  The number is further increased by the participants of the mathematics exchange programmes with partner universities in the US.  The »11th  International  Summer  Program at the  Ulm  University 2008« attracted again 29 students from transatlantic partner institutions.

The  Academy for  Science,  Industry and  Technology allocated 100,000 euros out of the » Academy  Fund« to the  University for the promotion of internationalisation in 2008.  Since it was founded, this non-profit organisation has been raising these funds itself with its successful course programme. 80,000 euros of the fund will be distributed as scholarships, especially to cover tuition fees for international students who are in need of financial aid.  The remaining 20,000 euros are intended for the promotion of international cooperation, for continuing education, development of new programmes and public relations.

The  University of  Ulm received the basic certificate » Family- Friendly  University« on 24  November 2008 on the basis of an audit carried out by the company berufundfamilie g Gmb H.  The  University of  Ulm’s  Executive  Committee signed an agreement on objectives in which the  University of  Ulm commits itself to further measures of making more compatible career/ studying and family.  The public awarding of the certificate was carried out by the patron,  Federal  Minister of  Family  Affairs,  Dr.  Ursula von der  Leyen, on 17  June 2009.  On 30  June 2008, the  University  Hospital was the first university hospital in  Baden-Württemberg to receive the same certificate.  By means of interim reports and another audit after three years, the institutes are required to prove that they implement their self-imposed goals – only then will the final certificate be awarded.

In the children's day-care centre, jointly used by the  University  Hospital and the  University of  Ulm, there are 20 spots available for children of employees and young scientists of the  University.  These spots are all taken and other children are currently waiting for a vacancy.  Possibilities for more capacity are therefore now being looked into.  The question of subsequent childcare for children who have reached the age of three is becoming increasingly important.

The  University administration offered a holiday childcare programme for children of employees, in cooperation with the  Workers’  Welfare  Organisation (research holidays) and the  Centre for  General  Scientific  Continuing  Education ( Summer  Science  Camp).  The research holidays were met with great enthusiasm in 2008. A total of 141 children were registered for 218 childcare weeks.  Registrations from 121 children 180 childcare weeks) were accepted. 40 children participated in the  Summer  Science  Camp 44 childcare weeks)

The idea behind the " Ulm  Science  Park", joining university and industrial research, is implemented successfully by collaboration between the  University's associated institutions and the  University, the  University of  Applied  Science, the  University  Hospital and industry.  Application-oriented research is in the foreground.  The first associated institution was founded in 1985, the  Institute for  Laser  Technology in  Medicine and  Measurement  Technique (ILM), as a foundation under public law.

As  Albert  Einstein was born in  Ulm in 1879, it was suggested repeatedly that the university be named after him.  In  November 2006, the senate of the university finally decided to rename the university.  As this decision was however not confirmed by the  Ministry of  Science,  Research and  Arts of the  State of  Baden-Württemberg, the university was not renamed to  Albert  Einstein  University of  Ulm ( German:  Albert- Einstein- Universität  Ulm) as of  July 2007, and stayed as  Ulm  University.  However, the street on which the main buildings of the  Ulm  University are located, and thus the physical address of the university, was named " Albert- Einstein- Allee" in honor of  Einstein.The  University of  Vechta ( Universität  Vechta) is a very small university in northwestern  Germany, in the small town of  Vechta in  Lower  Saxony.  Its study programmes concentrate on teacher training, social sciences, social work and gerontology.

The  University has about 5,300 students (2016).The  Julius  Maximilian  University of Würzburg (also referred to as the  University of Würzburg, in  German  Julius- Maximilians- Universität Würzburg) is a public research university in Würzburg,  Germany.  The  University of  Wurzburg is one of the oldest institutions of higher learning in  Germany, having been founded in 1402.  The  University initially had a brief run and was closed in 1415.  It was reopened in 1582 on the initiative of  Julius  Echter von  Mespelbrunn.  Today, the  University is named for  Julius  Echter von  Mespelbrunn and  Maximilian  Joseph.

The  University of Würzburg is part of the U15 group of research-intensive  German universities.  The university is also a member of the  Coimbra  Group.

Its official name is  Julius- Maximilians- Universität Würzburg (or " Julius- Maximilian  University of Würzburg") but it is commonly referred to as the  University of Würzburg.  This name is taken from  Julius  Echter von  Mespelbrunn,  Prince- Bishop of Würzburg, who reestablished the university in 1582, and  Prince  Elector  Maximilian  Joseph, the prince under whom secularization occurred at the start of the 19th century.  The  University’s central administration, foreign student office, and several research institutes are located within the area of the old town, while the new liberal arts campus, with its modern library, overlooks the city from the east.  The university today enrolls approximately 29,000 students, out of which more than 1,000 come from other countries.

Although the university was first founded in 1402, it was short-lived.  This was attributed to the lack of financial security and the instability of the age.  Johannes  Trithemius, well-known humanist and learned abbot of the  Scottish monastery of  St.  Jacob, held the then dissolute student lifestyle responsible for the premature decline of the city's first university.  In the  Annales  Hirsaugiensis  Chronologia  Mystica of 1506 he cites bathing, love, brawling, gambling, inebriation, squabbling, and general pandemonium as "greatly impeding the academic achievement in Würzburg".  Evidence of this is provided by the fatal stabbing of the university's first chancellor,  Johann  Zantfurt, in 1413, by a scholar's unruly assistant, or famulus, evidently the result of these very influences.  Despite  Egloffstein's thwarted first attempt at founding a university, the city still boasts one of the oldest universities in the  German-speaking world, almost on a par with  Prague (1348),  Vienna (1365),  Heidelberg (1386),  Cologne (1388), and  Erfurt (1392).

A university in Würzburg was refounded more than 150 years later. A "second founding" by  Prince  Bishop  Julius  Echter von  Mespelbrunn (1545–1617) in 1582 offered the institution guaranteed autonomous self-government.  The university was fiercely  Roman  Catholic and initially considered a "bastion of  Catholicism in the face of  Protestantism", words also used in the university charter which prevented all non- Catholics from graduating from or receiving tenure at the  Alma  Julia.  Echter intended it as a tool of  Counter- Reformation.

Over a century would pass before the university opened its doors to non- Catholics, in keeping with the spirit of  Enlightenment encouraged by  Prince  Bishop  Friedrich  Karl von  Schönborn's newly formulated students' charter of 1734.  The resultant increase in religious tolerance even enabled the summoning and subsequent appointment of the famous physician,  Karl  Kaspar von  Siebold, under  Schönborn's successor,  Adam  Friedrich von  Seinsheim.  Shortly after his arrival in 1769,  Protestant medical students were permitted to study for their doctorates at the university.

Würzburg's increasing secularisation as a bishopric and its eventual surrender to  Bavarian rule at the beginning of the 19th century resulted in the loss of the university's  Roman  Catholic character.  The end of the city's status as a  Grand  Duchy under  Ferdinand of  Toscana in 1814 heralded the  Alma  Julia's ideological transition to the non-denominational establishment which endures to this day.  This new inclusiveness towards professors and students alike was instrumental in the resultant upturn in all areas of research and education in the 19th century.  Since then, the university has borne the name of its second and most influential founder, officially known as the  Julius- Maximilians- Universität of  Bavaria.

The many medical accomplishments associated with the university from the mid- to late-19th century were inextricably linked with achievements in the affiliated field of natural science, notably by  Schwab, the eminent botanist,  Semper, the zoologist,  Wislicenus, the celebrated chemist and  Boveri, the biologist.  Their progress culminated in the discovery of x-rays by physicist  Wilhelm  Conrad Röntgen, first winner of the  Nobel  Prize for  Physics, in 1895. Röntgen's discovery, which he dubbed a "new kind of ray", is regarded as the university's greatest intellectual achievement, and, simultaneously, a scientific development of huge global import. Röntgen's successors, namely  Wilhelm  Wien,  Johannes  Stark and the chemists  Emil  Fischer and  Eduard  Buchner, also number among the succession of  Nobel  Prize winners to lecture at the university, a tradition which endures in the modern-day example of  Klaus von  Klitzing.

After  World  War II, the free state of  Bavaria invested a fortune in the rebuilding and renovation of the university buildings, which had been severely damaged by  Allied bombing.  Restoration of  Echter's " Old  University", current home to the faculty of law, continues today.  The eventual rebuilding of the  Neubaukirche (" Neubau  Church"), also affiliated to the legal faculty and almost razed to the ground in 1945, marked the end of the city's extensive reconstruction process.  In 1970 it was decided that the church, one of the most important examples of 16th century vaulted architecture in southern  Germany, should fulfill a dual function as a place of worship and as the university banquet, assembly, and concert hall.  Echter's heart, removed for safekeeping during the war, has once again found its place in the church he designed, fulfilling a request made during his lifetime.The  University of  Wuppertal ( Universität  Wuppertal) is a  German scientific institution, located in  Wuppertal,  North  Rhine- Westphalia.

The university, the full  German name of which is  Bergische  Universität  Wuppertal (BUW), was formed in 1972 and is located in the city of  Wuppertal, within the state of  North  Rhine- Westphalia,  Germany.  In 2014/15 it had almost 20,000 students in a wide range of subjects with many interdisciplinary linkages in 7 faculties:

The main building of the BU  Wuppertal is located in the suburb of  Elberfeld on  Grifflenberg and is a massive, cut honeycomb concrete purpose.  The university now has 3 campuses:

All three campuses hold specific parts of the  University  Library of  Wuppertal, the main library at  Campus  Grifflenberg holds five specific libraries.

From 2004 until 2010, the  University of  Wuppertal had the second supercomputer at a  German university. A Li C Enext, the supercomputer, is designed as a cluster and consists of 512 so-called  Blades. A Li C Enext used in the field of elementary particle physics, applied computer science, astro-particle physics and experimental high energy physics.

The university employs more than 250 professors (as of 2014).  Notable people who have taught in  Wuppertal are:

The  University of  Wuppertal has received consistently low rankings in global surveys.  For example, the online academic review site  Shanghai  Ranking placed the  University between 404th and 502nd overall as compared to other international collegiate programs.  However, the  Physics program in particular is ranked somewhat higher, being placed between the 101st and 150th places in 2013 and between 151st and 200th in 2014.

In the CHE  Excellence  Ranking the  University was placed in a pan- European group of about 100 colleges, which have strong research departments with an international orientation for  Ph D and  Master's students in the fields of economics, psychology, and political science.

In the journal  German  Economic  Review's initial assessment, research activities in 2008 received a B in productivity.

In the national founding ranking, it was named best original site in  Germany three times.

Because of efforts to innovative in the field of graphics cards, the  University was named a "CUDA  Research  Center" by  Nvidia.

At the end of 2014, the  University was awarded the  Wuppertal business award in the category of " City  Marketing  Award" for their national importance in research and teaching.Uppsala  University ( Swedish:  Uppsala universitet) is a research university in  Uppsala,  Sweden, and is the oldest university in  Sweden and all of the  Nordic countries, founded in 1477.  It ranks among the best universities in  Northern  Europe in international rankings.  The university uses " Gratiae veritas naturae" as its motto and embraces natural sciences.

The university rose to pronounced significance during the rise of  Sweden as a great power at the end of the 16th century and was then given a relative financial stability with the large donation of  King  Gustavus  Adolphus in the early 17th century.  Uppsala also has an important historical place in  Swedish national culture, identity and for the  Swedish establishment: in historiography, literature, politics, and music.  Many aspects of  Swedish academic culture in general, such as the white student cap, originated in  Uppsala.  It shares some peculiarities, such as the student nation system, with  Lund  University and the  University of  Helsinki.

Uppsala belongs to the  Coimbra  Group of  European universities.  The university has nine faculties distributed over three “disciplinary domains”.  It has about 24,000 full-time students and 2,400 doctoral students.  It has a teaching staff of roughly 1,800 (part-time and full-time) out of a total of 6,500 employees.  Twenty-five per cent of the 674 professors at the university are women.  Of its turnover of SEK 5.9 billion (approx. USD 900 million) in 2013, 30% was spent on education on basic and advanced level, while 66% was spent on research and research programs.

Architecturally,  Uppsala  University has traditionally had a strong presence in the area around the cathedral on the western side of the  River  Fyris.  Despite some more contemporary building developments further away from the centre,  Uppsala's historic centre continues to be dominated by the presence of the university.

As with most medieval universities,  Uppsala  University initially grew out of an ecclesiastical center.  The archbishopric of  Uppsala had been one of the most important sees in  Sweden proper since  Christianity first spread to this region in the ninth century.  Uppsala had also long been a hub for regional trade, and had contained settlements dating back into the deep  Middle  Ages.  As was also the case with most medieval universities,  Uppsala had initially been chartered through a papal bull.  Uppsala's bull, which granted the university its corporate rights, was issued by  Pope  Sixtus IV in 1477, and established a number of provisions.  Among the most important of these was that the university was officially given the same freedoms and privileges as the  University of  Bologna.  This included the right to establish the four traditional faculties of theology, law ( Canon  Law and  Roman law), medicine, and philosophy, and to award the bachelor's, master's, licentiate, and doctoral degrees.  The archbishop of  Uppsala was also named as the university's  Chancellor, and was charged with maintaining the rights and privileges of the university and its members.

The turbulent period of the reformation of  King  Gustavus  Vasa resulted in a drop in the already relatively insignificant number of students in  Uppsala, which was seen as a center of  Catholicism and of potential disloyalty to the  Crown.  Swedish students generally travelled to one of the  Protestant universities in  Germany, especially  Wittenberg.  There is some evidence of academic studies in  Uppsala during the 16th century; the  Faculty of  Theology is mentioned in a document from 1526,  King  Eric XIV appointed  Laurentius  Petri  Gothus (later archbishop) rector of the university in 1566, and his successor and brother  John III appointed a number of professors in the period 1569–1574.  At the end of the century the situation had changed, and  Uppsala became a bastion of  Lutheranism, which  Duke  Charles, the third of the sons of  Gustavus  Vasa to eventually become king (as  Charles IX) used to consolidate his power and eventually oust his nephew  Sigismund from the throne.  The  Meeting of  Uppsala in 1593 established  Lutheran orthodoxy in  Sweden, and  Charles and the  Council of state gave new privileges to the university on 1  August of the same year.

Theology still had precedence, but in the privileges of 1593, the importance of a university to educate secular servants of the state was also emphasized.  Three of the seven professorial chairs which were established were in  Theology; of the other four, three were in  Astronomy,  Physics (or general natural sciences) and  Latin eloquence. A fourth chair was given to  Ericus  Jacobi  Skinnerus, who was also appointed rector, but whose discipline was not mentioned in the charter.  Of the professors, several were taken over from the  Collegium  Regium in  Stockholm, which had been functioning for a few years but closed in 1593.  An eighth chair, in  Medicine, was established in 1595 but received no appointee for several years.  In 1599 the number of students was approximately 150.  In 1600 the first post-reformation conferment of degrees took place.  In the same year, the antiquarian and mystic  Johannes  Bureus designed and engraved the seal of the university, which is today used as part of the logotype.

The medieval university had mainly been a school for theology.  The aspirations of the emergent new great power of  Sweden demanded a different kind of learning.  Sweden both grew through conquests and went through a complete overhaul of its administrative structure.  It required a much larger class of civil servants and educators than before.  Preparatory schools, gymnasiums, were also founded during this period in various cathedral towns, notably Västerås (the first one) in 1623.  Beside  Uppsala, new universities were founded in more distant parts of the  Swedish  Realm, the  University of  Dorpat (present-day  Tartu) in  Estonia (1632) and the  University of Åbo in  Finland (1640).  After the  Scanian provinces were taken from  Denmark,  Lund  University was founded in 1666.

Instrumental in the reforms of the early 17th-century  Swedish state was the long-dominant  Chancellor  Axel  Oxenstierna, who had spent his own student days in  German universities and who for the last years before his death was also chancellor of the university.  King  Gustavus  Adolphus showed the university a keen interest and increased the professorial chairs from eight to thirteen in 1620, and again to seventeen in 1621.  In 1624 the king donated "for all eternity" all his own inherited personal property in the provinces of  Uppland and Västmanland, some 300 farms, mills and other sources of income.  The king's former private tutor,  Johan  Skytte, who was made chancellor of the university in 1622, donated the  Skyttean chair in  Eloquence and  Government which still exists.  The university received a stable structure with its constitution of 1626.  The head of the university was to be the chancellor, his deputy was the "pro-chancellor" (always the archbishop ex officio).  The immediate rule was the responsibility of the consistory, to which belonged all the professors of the university, and the rector magnificus, who was elected for a semester at the time; the latter position circulated among the professors, each of whom sometimes held it several times.

During the late 16th and early 17th centuries (and perhaps even earlier), the university was located to the old chapter house parallel to the south side of the cathedral, later renamed the  Academia  Carolina.  In 1622–1625 a new university building was built east of the cathedral, the so-called  Gustavianum, named after the reigning king.  In the 1630s, the total number of students were about one thousand.

Queen  Christina was generous to the university, gave scholarships to  Swedish students to study abroad and recruited foreign scholars to  Uppsala chairs, among them several from the  University of  Strassburg, notably the philologist  Johannes  Schefferus (professor skytteanus), whose little library and museum building at S:t  Eriks torg now belongs to the  Royal  Society of  Sciences in  Uppsala.  The  Queen, who would eventually declare her abdication in the great hall of  Uppsala  Castle, visited the university on many occasions; in 1652 she was present at an anatomical demonstration arranged at the castle for the young physician  Olaus  Rudbeck.  Rudbeck, one of several sons of  Johannes  Rudbeckius, a former  Uppsala professor who became  Bishop of Västerås, was sent for a year to the progressive  University of  Leiden in the  Netherlands.  Returning in 1654, he received an assistantship in  Medicine in 1655, and had already gone to work on a program of improving aspects of the university.  He planted the first botanical garden, the one which would eventually be tended by  Carl  Linnaeus and is kept today as a museum of 18th century botany under the name  Linnaeus'  Garden.  With the patronage of the university chancellor  Magnus  Gabriel  De la  Gardie,  Rudbeck was made full professor in 1660, was elected rector for two terms, despite his youth, and started a revision of the work of the other professors and a building spree with himself as architect.  His most significant remaining architectural work is the anatomical theatre, which was added to  Gustavianum in the 1660s and crowned with the characteristic cupola for which the building is today known.

A gifted scientist, architect and engineer,  Rudbeck was the dominant personality of the university in the late 17th century who laid some of the groundwork for  Linnaeus and others, but he is perhaps more known today for the pseudohistorical speculations of his  Atlantica, which consumed much of his later life.  When large parts of  Uppsala burned down in 1702,  Gustavianum, which contained the university library and its many valuable manuscripts, escaped the fire; local lore has it that the aging  Rudbeck stood on the roof directing the work of fighting the fire.

The early part of the 18th century was still characterized by the combination of  Lutheran orthodoxy and classical philology of the previous century, but eventually a larger emphasis on sciences and practically useful knowledge developed.  The innovative mathematician and physicist  Samuel  Klingenstierna (1698–1765) was made a professor in 1728, the physicist and astronomer  Anders  Celsius in 1729, and  Carl  Linnaeus was made professor of  Medicine with  Botany in 1741.  The university was not immune to the parliamentary struggle between the parties known as the " Hats" and the " Caps", with the former having a preference for hard sciences and practical knowledge.  The  Hat government then in power established a chair in economics (Œconomia publica) in 1741 and called  Anders  Berch as its first incumbent.  This was the first professorship in economics outside  Germany, and possibly the third in  Europe (the first chairs having been established in  Halle and  Frankfurt ( Oder) in 1727).  In 1759, following a donation, another chair in economy was established, the  Borgströmian professorship in "practical economy", by which was meant the practical application of the natural sciences for economic purposes (it eventually developed into a chair for physiological botany).

There were very radical attempts at reforms which were never implemented, but important changes took place.  University studies had until this time been very informal in their overall organization, with the all-purpose philosophiæ magister-degree being the only one frequently conferred and many never graduating, as there were no degree applicable to their intended area of work (and well-connected aristocratic students often not graduating as they did not need to). A few professional degrees for various purposes were introduced in 1749–1750, but the radical suggestion of binding students to a single program of study adapted to a particular profession was never implemented.  The reforms of this era have been compared to those of the 1960s and 1970s ( Sten  Lindroth).

Although it took some time after the fire of 1702,  Uppsala  Cathedral and  Uppsala  Castle were both eventually restored, both by  Carl Hårleman, perhaps the most important  Swedish architect of the era.  He also modified  Gustavianum, designed a new conservatory for  Linnaeus' botanical garden and built the new  Consistory house, which was to be the administrative core of the university.

Another magnificent royal donation was that of the large baroque garden of the castle, given by  Gustavus III to the university when it was obvious that the old botanical garden was insufficient. A large new conservatory was built by the architect  Louis  Jean  Desprez.  Additional grounds adjacent to the baroque garden has since been added.  The old garden of  Rudbeck and  Linnaeus was largely left to decay, but was reconstructed in the years between 1918 and 1923 according to the specifications of  Linnaeus in his work  Hortus  Upsaliensis from 1745.

The issue of women's right to study at universities was raised during the very last session of the estate parliament in 1865 in a motion from  Carl  Johan  Svensén, a member of the farmers' estate.  The reception was mixed, with the most negative views coming from the clergy.  In the following years the issue continued to be debated at the universities.  In 1870, it was decided to let women take the secondary school examination ("studentexamen") that gave the right to entry at universities and the right to study and complete degrees at the faculties of  Medicine in  Uppsala and  Lund and at the  Caroline  Institute of  Medicine and  Surgery in  Stockholm. A common view was that the female sensitivity and compassion would make women capable of working as physicians, but their right to work was still restricted to private practice.  Women's rights to higher education was extended in 1873, when all degrees except those in the faculties of theology and the licentiate degree in  Law were made accessible for women.

The first female student in  Sweden was  Betty  Pettersson (1838–1885), who had already worked as a private tutor for several years when she took "studentexamen" in 1871.  With a royal dispensation, she was allowed to enter university in  Uppsala in 1872, the year before studies at the  Philosophical faculty would actually be made generally available to women.  She studied modern  European languages and was the first woman in  Sweden to complete an academic degree when she finished a fil. kand. in 1875.  She became the first woman to be employed as a teacher in a public school for boys.  The first woman in  Sweden to complete a doctoral degree was  Ellen  Fries (1855–1900), who entered  Uppsala university in 1877 and became a  Ph D in history in 1883.  Other female students of this period includes  Lydia  Wahlström (1869–1954) who later became a noted educator, activist and writer on women's emancipation and suffrage.  Defending a dissertation in history in 1900, she became the second woman to finish a doctorate at a  Swedish university.  In 1892, she founded the  Uppsala  Women's  Student  Association, who set up spex performances and other things enjoyed by male students but from which the women were excluded at the time.  The members of the  Association were the first woman to wear the student caps in public, an important sign of their status.  Elsa  Eschelsson (1861–1911) was the first  Swedish woman to finish a law degree, and the first to become a "docent", but was not permitted to even hold the position of acting professor despite being formally qualified for this in everything but her sex.  After years of conflicts with the professor of civil law A. O.  Winroth and with the university board, she died in 1911 from an overdose of sleeping-powder.

According to the constitution of 1809, only "native  Swedish men" could be appointed to higher civil servant positions, including professorships.  This was changed in 1925, and the first woman to hold a professorial chair at  Uppsala  University was  Gerd  Enequist, appointed professor of human geography in 1949.

Hildegard  Björck who studied in the university became the first  Swedish woman to receive an academic degree.

The governing board of the university is the consistory, with representatives of the faculties as well as members representing the students and non-academic employees (3 professors and 3 students), and ten university outsiders appointed by the  Swedish government.  All these members in the consistory have the right to vote.

The unions active at the university also have three representatives in the consistory; these members have the right to speak but not any right to vote.

Since the last reorganization in 1999 the university has a separate body called the academic senate, which is a wider, but mostly advisory group representing teaching staff / researchers and students.  The executive head of the university is the rector magnificus (that also have the title "vice-chancellor"), whose deputy is the prorector.  In addition, there are (also since 1999) three vice rectors, each heading one of the three "disciplinary domains" ( Arts and  Social  Sciences,  Medicine and  Pharmacy, and  Science and  Technology), into which the nine faculties are divided.  Each faculty has a faculty board and is headed by a dean (dekanus).  The position of dean is held part-time by a professor of the faculty.

Through division of faculties and the addition of a previously independent school of  Pharmacy as a new faculty, the traditional four-faculty organization of  European universities has evolved into the present nine faculties:

Uppsala  University also hosts the  Forum for  South  Asia  Studies, a collaborative academic effort by its six faculties:  Theology,  Law,  History and  Philosophy,  Social  Sciences,  Languages, and  Educational  Sciences.  The  Forum aims facilitate and promote research and education related to the  South  Asian countries:  India,  Pakistan,  Sri  Lanka,  Nepal,  Bangladesh, the  Maldives and  Afghanistan, on the national and international level, with  Ferdinando  Sardella,  Faculty of  Theology, serving as the  Forum's director.

The university library holds about 5.25 million volumes of books and periodicals (131,293 shelf meters), 61,959 manuscripts, 7,133 music prints, and 345,734 maps and other graphic documents.  The holdings of the collection of manuscripts and music includes, among other things, the  Gothic  Bible manuscript  Codex  Argenteus.

The most widely recognized building of the university library is  Carolina  Rediviva, the "revived  Carolina", thus named in reference to  Academia  Carolina (see illustration), which held the university library from the earliest times until 1691, when it was moved to the upper floor of  Gustavianum, where it miraculously survived the great city fire of 1702.  In the mid-18th century, there were plans to move it back to the  Academia  Carolina or a new building on the same spot.  The building was demolished in 1778 to make place for a new library, but this was never built and the area next to the cathedral where it stood is today a lawn.  The present  Carolina  Rediviva was built in a different place and completed in 1841.

The present university library system comprises 19 branches, including the one in the  Carolina building.

The  Uppsala  Academic  Hospital or  Akademiska sjukhuset, which functions as a teaching hospital for the  Faculty of  Medicine and the  Nursing  School, is run by the  Uppsala  County  Council in cooperation with the university.  As of 2003 , the hospital had 7,719 employees and as of 2004 1,079 places for patients.

The university hospital is actually older than the university, as it goes back to the earliest hospital, founded in  Uppsala in 1302, much later merged with the university clinic.  This was used for 400 years until the great fire of 1702 which destroyed large parts of central  Uppsala. A new hospital, which later became the  Uppsala county hospital, was built in its place, but was moved out of the town in 1811.

The first clinic with the specific intention to facilitate the practical education of medical students was the  Nosocomium  Academicum, founded in 1708 and located to the  Oxenstierna  Palace at  Riddartorget beside the cathedral (see illustration above).  The building (the former residence of the  President of the  Royal  Chancellery  Bengt  Gabrielsson  Oxenstierna) today houses the  Faculty of  Law.

The present  Akademiska sjukhuset was founded in 1850 as an organizational merger of the county hospital and the university clinic, and a new building was inaugurated in 1867 on the hill below  Uppsala  Castle to the southeast.  From this building, which is still in use, the present hospital complex has grown.

The  The  Svedberg  Laboratory (named after  Theodore  The  Svedberg) is a university facility that contains the  Gustaf  Werner cyclotron, which is used for research as well as for proton therapy for the treatment of cancer with close cooperation with the oncology clinic at  Uppsala  University  Hospital.  Such an accelerator and its gantries costs between $60 million and $100 million, and makes  Uppsala  University  Hospital one of the approximately 40 centers in the world to provide such cancer treatment.

The buildings and locations where the university has activities or which are significantly connected to its history are listed below.  Some of the historic buildings in central  Uppsala have had to be retired, as their protected status has made it impossible to make modifications necessary to meet requirements to adjust to the needs for students with disabilities.

Ekonomikum is a building that is part of  Uppsala  University.  The building, designed by  Swedish modernist architect  Peter  Celsing, was completed in 1976, and housed departments for languages, humanities, and social sciences.

Since the early 2000s,  Ekonomikum is a multidisciplinary centre specialized in economics and financial studies, information science, and human geography.  It has approximately 2,500 students and 500 faculty and staff members, a library, KPH print shop, a restaurant, and several students' associations.

Up until  June 2010 students at  Uppsala  University were obliged to become members of one of the nations, corporations of students traditionally according to province of origin (not strictly upheld now, for practical reasons).  The system of dividing students into nations according to origin can ultimately be traced back to the nations at the medieval  University of  Paris and other early medieval universities, but the  Uppsala nations appear only about 1630–1640, most likely under influence of the  Landsmannschaften which existed at some of the  German universities visited by  Swedish students.  In  Sweden, nations exist only in  Uppsala and  Lund.  The nations were originally seen as subversive organisations promoting less virtuous aspects of student life, but in 1663 the consistory made membership in a nation legal, each nation being placed under the inspectorship of a professor.

The current thirteen nations all have a history stretching back to the early-to-mid 17th century, but some of them are the result of mergers of older, smaller nations that took place in the early 19th century to facilitate the financing of building projects.

The nations at  Uppsala  University are:

Since the 1960s there is a fourteenth nation, the  Skånelandens nation (referring to the  Scanian lands) which has no membership fee and exists as a legal device to get around the compulsory membership for students who prefer not to become affiliated with the traditional nations.

The  Uppsala  Student  Union was founded in 1849 as a corporation representing all students except those attending the faculty of  Pharmacy, irrespective of nation.  The students at the faculty of  Pharmacy were also exempt from the compulsory membership in the nations, but most pharmacy-students belonged to one.  However they were obliged to take up membership in the  Pharmaceutical  Association of  Uppsala  Students, an organisation having the same role as the nations and the student union at the rest of the university.

The compulsory membership in a student union was abolished 1  July 2010; however, the unions will still be the representing organisations in the university boards and committees.  The status as a student union will be decided upon by the university board for periods of three years at a time.  In a decision by the university board  February 20, 2013, there will be four student unions at the university during  July 2013 –  June 2016: the  Uppsala  Student  Union (for students at the faculties of  Art,  Social  Sciences,  Languages,  Theology,  Law,  Educational  Sciences and  Medicine), the  Pharmaceutical  Association of  Uppsala  Students (for students at the  Faculty of  Pharmacy), the  Uppsala  Union of  Engineering and  Science  Students (at the  Faculty of  Science and  Technology), and  Rindi (the union for students at  Campus  Gotland).

The  University's  Royal  Academic  Orchestra was founded in 1627.  Its main purpose is to play at academic ceremonies, but holds concerts on other occasions as well.  Its leader has the title of director musices.  The position has been held by composers such as  Wilhelm  Stenhammar,  Hugo  Alfvén and  Lars- Erik  Larsson.  Affiliated with the  University are three choirs, the mixed  Uppsala  University  Choir ( Allmänna Sången), founded in 1830, the male choir  Orphei  Drängar, founded in 1853, and the  Academy  Chamber  Choir of  Uppsala, founded in 1957. A number of other choirs and orchestras are affiliated with the nations.

An important name in the recent history of the choirs is  Eric  Ericson, who was conductor of both  Orphei  Drängar and the  Chamber  Choir.  In honour of  Ericson, the Förenings Sparbanken endowed the  Eric  Ericson  Chair in  Choral  Directing, and the  Uppsala  University  Choral  Centre was inaugurated in 2000.  The centre arranges courses in choral directing.

Like many cities there is a shortage of housing in  Uppsala, a problem which has existed for many years.  Both native  Swedes and foreign students are finding it difficult to find accommodation when first enrolling into the university.  This problem is however not as bad as it was with several major housing construction projects having been completed after 2010.

There has never been a custom in  Sweden for the universities to arrange housing for students, in fact universities are not allowed by law to own housing.  Students are expected to arrange their own living accommodations on the private market.  To make it easier for students to find moderately priced housing, special student rooms and student apartments have been built by the student nations and student unions.  However, the student housing is insufficient to accommodate all students.  About 40,000 students are eligible to live in the 11,000 available rooms and apartments.  Because of the low rent in these apartments and the general lack of housing in  Uppsala the student apartments are highly attractive and many try to hold on to the contracts as long as possible even after graduating.

Sports play a very small role in the life of the university, compared to  British and especially U.S. universities, but have existed in various forms since the early 17th century.  Uppsala  University is more noted for its musical and choral traditions.  Both have partial roots in the 17th century institution of extracurricular exercises for students from the nobility.

To ease the recruitment of students from the nobility, the university started in the 1630s to offer training in a number of exercitiae or "exercises" ( Swedish: exercitier) deemed necessary for the well-rounded education of a young nobleman: riding, fencing, dance, drawing and modern languages such as  French and  Italian.  The initiative came from  Chancellor  Axel  Oxenstierna, who saw the value in a well-educated class of civil servants and the danger to his own class if its members would fall behind in academic education compared to those students who came from the lower estates.  An "exercise yard", built for the riding and fencing exercises, was demolished in the late 19th century to give place to the new  University  Hall.  The modern languages were made part of the regular academic curriculum in the 19th century.  The surviving "exercises" include:

Besides the exercitiae, other sports have had a presence in  Uppsala student life.  The  Upsala  Simsällskap, " Uppsala  Swimming  Society", which is the oldest swimming club in the world, was founded in 1796 by the mathematician Jöns  Svanberg.  It had no formal connection to the university, but all its earliest members came from academic life.  Svanberg even arranged a mock graduation ceremony, a simpromotion, in parody of the university ceremonies, where those who had graduated from its swimming training were awarded "degrees" of master (magister) and bachelor (kandidat).  These degrees stuck, and  Swedish swimming schools still use these degrees for different levels of swimming skills.

An attempt was made in the 1870s to introduce academic rowing after the  Oxbridge model.  The  Stockholm  Nation acquired a rowing boat in 1877, soon followed by the  Gothenburg  Nation, and for a number of years rowing competitions were held between teams from the two nations.  Although rowing never got the strong position it has at the  English universities, an annual  Uppsala- Lund regatta has been arranged since 1992, between rowing teams from  Uppsala and  Lund  University.  The race is held on the  Fyris  River in  Uppsala on even years, and on a river in the vicinity of  Lund on odd years.  Each year there is at least one full eight crew with cox competing, with both men's and women's teams present.  With the recent victory for  Uppsala in 2005, the score stands 24–23 in  Uppsala's favor.

Uppsala  University has signed student exchange agreements with about 500 universities across all parts of the world.  It takes part in the  Erasmus programme and the  Nordplus programme.  Uppsala  University has signed university-wide student exchange programmes with the following universities (selection):

Uppsala  University is a member of the  Coimbra  Group of universities.

In  May 2010  Uppsala joined the  Matariki  Network of  Universities (MNU) together with  Dartmouth  College (USA),  Durham  University (UK),  Queen's  University ( Canada),  University of  Otago ( New  Zealand),  University of Tübingen ( Germany), and  University of  Western  Australia ( Australia).

Uppsala  University places well in many rankings.

Uppsala  University is associated with 8  Nobel  Prize laureates, and numerous royalty, academics and public figures.

As the dominant academic institution in  Sweden for several centuries,  Uppsala  University has ever since its first period of expansion in the early part of the 17th century educated a large proportion of  Swedish politicians and civil servants, from 17th century  Chancellor of the  Realm (rikskansler)  Johan  Oxenstierna (1611–1657) and  Lord  Chief  Justice (riksdrots)  Magnus  Gabriel  De la  Gardie (1622–1686) to the first  Social  Democratic  Prime  Minister of  Sweden,  Hjalmar  Branting (1860–1925) and many later politicians.  Other alumni are  Dag  Hammarskjöld (1905–1961),  United  Nations  Secretary  General who was (posthumously) awarded the  Nobel  Peace  Prize in 1961, and the  Swedish diplomat  Hans  Blix (born 1928), who was  Head of the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 1981–1997, of the UNMOVIC 2000–2003, and previously  Swedish  Minister of  Foreign  Affairs 1978–1979.  Hammarskjöld and  Blix both graduated from the  Uppsala  Faculty of  Law, as did the  Swedish  Minister of  Foreign  Affairs  Anna  Lindh, who was assassinated in 2003.

Most  Swedish clergymen, including most bishops and archbishops, have been educated at the university, including, in more recent times,  Nathan Söderblom (1866–1931),  Professor of the  History of  Religions in the  Faculty of  Theology, later  Archbishop of  Uppsala, and awarded the  Nobel  Peace  Prize in 1930 for his work as leader of the ecumenical movement.

The university became prominent in the sciences in the 18th century with names such as the physician and botanist  Carl  Linnaeus (1707–1778), the father of biological and mineralogical taxonomy, and his numerous important pupils, the physicist and astronomer  Anders  Celsius (1701–1744), inventor of the  Celsius scale the predecessor of the  Celsius scale, and the chemist  Torbern  Bergman (1735–1784).  Another scientist from this era is  Emanuel  Swedenborg (1688–1772), better remembered today as a religious mystic.  Several of the elements were discovered by  Uppsala scientists during this period or later. Jöns  Jakob  Berzelius, one of the fathers of modern chemistry, received his doctorate in medicine in  Uppsala in 1804, but later moved to  Stockholm.  Uppsala scientists of the 19th century include the physicist  Anders  Jonas Ångström (1814–1874).  During the 20th century several  Nobel laureates in the sciences have been  Uppsala alumni or professors at the university.

Many well-known  Swedish writers have studied in  Uppsala:  Georg  Stiernhielm (1698–1672) is often called the father of  Swedish poetry.  The poet and song composer  Carl  Michael  Bellman (1740–1795), without doubt the best-loved and best-remembered of  Swedish 18th-century poets, matriculated but left the university after less than a year.  The writer, historian and composer  Erik  Gustaf  Geijer (1783–1847), professor of history, and the poet  Per  Daniel  Amadeus  Atterbom (1790–1855), professor of poetry, were principal figures of early 19th-century  Swedish romanticism.  The less than happy experiences of the  Uppsala student life of novelist and playwright  August  Strindberg (1849–1912), resulted in his  Från  Fjärdingen och  Svartbäcken (1877), a collection of short stories set in  Uppsala (" From  Fjärdingen and  Svartbäcken", the title refers to two districts in  Uppsala).  Other  Uppsala alumni are the poet  Erik  Axel  Karlfeldt (1864–1931), who refused the  Nobel  Prize for  Literature in 1918, but received it posthumously in 1931, the novelist and playwright Pär  Lagerkvist (1891–1974),  Nobel laureate in 1951, and the poet and novelist  Karin  Boye (1900–1941), for whom one branch of the university library has been named.  The  Communist leader  Ture  Nerman (1886–1969) wrote a novel called  Olympen, based on his experience as a student in  Uppsala.  Niklas  Zennström, co-founder of  Ka Za A and  Skype is also a former student at  Uppsala  University.  On 15  August 2008  Zennström donated 15 million SEK to  Uppsala  University for climate research.  The late  Jan  Stenbeck, a  Nordic media mogul who controlled  Modern  Times  Group, was also an alumnus of  Uppsala  University.

Along with  Lund,  Uppsala is the historic and traditional centre of  Swedish academic life, making it a popular object of reference in  Swedish literature, art, and film.  Specifically,  Uppsala  University has appeared notably in Män som hatar kvinnor or  The  Girl with the  Dragon  Tattoo by  Stieg  Larsson.

The  Norwegian pop singer  Kirsti  Sparboe dedicated one of her biggest successes to  Uppsala  University, publishing in 1969 the song " Ein  Student aus  Uppsala".  The song, originally written in  German, lasted 14 weeks in the  German charts.

Uppsala  University appears as a research centre in the strategy game  Empire:  Total  War.

Uppsala  University appears in the novel "S." by  Doug  Dorst and JJ  Abrams.  The fictional author V.M.  Straka of " Ship of  Theseus" sends  Mr.  Grahn a confidential letter on  Uppsala  Universitet letterhead and stamps his signature with " Straka  Uppsala  Arkiv" (included as an insert to the book).Viadrina  European  University ( German:  Europa- Universität  Viadrina  Frankfurt ( Oder), hence its frequent appearance as  European  University  Viadrina  Frankfurt ( Oder) in  English) is a university located at  Frankfurt ( Oder) in  Brandenburg,  Germany.  It is also known as the  University of  Frankfurt ( Oder).  The city is on the  Oder  River, which marks the border between  Germany and  Poland.  With 5,200 students — around 1,000 of whom come from  Poland — and some 160 teaching staff, the  Viadrina is one of  Germany's smallest universities (only the  University of  Erfurt and  Jacobs  University  Bremen have fewer students).

The  Latin word  Viadrina means "belonging to, or situated at, the  Oder  River"; it derives from  Viadrus, the name of a presumed river god of the  Oder.  Actually, an ancient name of the river is not documented, it is mentioned as  Oddera in the 991  Dagome iudex referring to the realm of  Prince  Mieszko I of  Poland.  The  Latin name was probably introduced the  Frankfurt scholar  Jodocus  Willich (c.1486–1552) and appeared in the  Cosmographia by  Sebastian Münster in 1544; the city of  Frankfurt was known in  Latin as  Francofortum ad  Viadrum.

The  Alma  Mater  Viadrina was founded on 26  April 1506 by  Elector  Joachim I  Nestor, with permission from  Pope  Julius II, as the first principal university of the  Margraviate of  Brandenburg.  The foundation stone was laid already in 1498 at the site of a demolished synagogue; a foundation charter was issued by  Pope  Alexander VI in the same year.  The notable theologian  Konrad  Wimpina (c.1465–1531) became founding prorector.  Construction of the main buildung ( Collegienhaus) was completed in 1507.

The university was organized into four  Faculties of  Arts: law, theology, philosophy, and medicine.  Within the first year, more than 900 students from all over  Germany,  Poland,  Sweden,  Norway, and  Denmark enrolled.  The  Viadrina enjoyed an excellent reputation in  Brandenburg and the surrounding regions, and its graduates had high positions in administration, politics, law and the church.

One of its earliest chancellors,  Bishop  Georg von  Blumenthal (1490–1550) was a vigorous opponent of the  Protestant  Reformation and did his utmost to expel  Lutherans such as  Jodocus  Willich.  In 1518  Johann  Tetzel (1465–1519) obtained his doctorate at  Frankfurt.  Nevertheless, the  University, like its  Prussian counterpart, the  University of Königsberg established in 1544, turned to  Lutheran orthodoxy.  After the ruling  House of  Hohenzollern had converted to  Calvinism, the ' Great  Elector'  Frederick  William and his governor  Prince  John  Maurice of  Nassau- Siegen in 1655 founded the  University of  Duisburg, a  Reformed college in the  Duchy of  Cleves.

Frederick  William also opened the  Frankfurt  University for  Jewish students, against fierce resistance by the teaching staff.  While damages of the  Thirty  Years'  War still had to be repaired, he had a botanical garden laid out next to the university premises.  An anatomical theatre was built in 1684 at the behest of physician  Bernhardus  Albinus (1653–1721).  The complete renovation was accomplished in 1693/94.

In 1736 the eminent jurist  Johann  Jakob  Moser was called to head the  Faculty of  Law at the university, but had to leave after three years due to his thoroughly  Liberal ideas which were disliked by the  Prussian king  Frederick  William I.

In the course of the  Prussian  Reforms during the  Napoleonic  Wars, the  University of  Frankfurt was moved to  Breslau (present-day  Wrocław,  Poland) in 1811.  It merged with the  University of  Breslau, the  Leopoldina established in 1702 by the  Habsburg emperor  Leopold I, in order to be competitive with the newly founded  University of  Berlin.  The merger included the transfer of the comprehensive library stocks, then with more than 28,000 volumes the second largest in  Prussia after the Königsberg  State and  University  Library collection, up the  Oder river by boat.  Some of the  Viadrina professors did, however, accept positions in  Berlin.

The old university building was taken over by the  City of  Frankfurt and turned into a schoolhouse.  It was hardly damaged in  World  War II and first used as a home for refugees from the former eastern territories.  Afterwards the building stood empty until it was controversially demolished in the early 1960s.  Only the arch of the main entrance has been preserved as a monument.

Famous students at the historical  Viadrina included the philosopher  Ulrich von  Hutten (1488–1523) and the theologian and political leader  Thomas Müntzer (c.1489–1525), the musician  Carl  Philipp  Emanuel  Bach (1714–1788), the physicians  Marcus  Elieser  Bloch (1723–1799) and  Johann  Gottlieb  Walter (1734–1818),  Wilhelm (1767–1836) and  Alexander von  Humboldt (1769–1859), as well as the poet  Heinrich von  Kleist (1777–1811).  Among the notable university prorectors was  Duke  Henry  Wenceslaus of  Oels- Bernstadt (1592–1639) in 1608.

In 1991 the university was re-established as  Viadrina  European  University.  It currently comprises three faculties:  Economics and  Business  Studies;  Law; and  Cultural  Studies. A prime focus of the educational program is to attract students from throughout  Europe in order to create a multinational student body.  Currently about 40 percent of the students are foreigners (mostly  Polish), a greater proportion than at other  German universities.

Viadrina  European  University maintains close cooperation with  Adam  Mickiewicz  University in  Poznań,  Poland.  The two universities jointly operate the  Collegium  Polonicum, located just opposite  Viadrina on the  Polish side of the  Oder  River.

Notable among the research institutions at  Viadrina  University is the  Frankfurt  Institute of  Transformational  Studies (FIT).  The  Institute is a substantial contributor to research on economies in transition.

The university's former president,  Professor  Gesine  Schwan, ran for  President of  Germany both in 2004 and 2009, being narrowly defeated by  Horst Köhler twice.  Former diplomat  Gunter  Pleuger has served as the university's president since  October 1, 2008.  Pleuger was followed by slavicist  Alexander Wöll on  October 1, 2014.

The  Viadrina  European  University currently offers the following study programs in  English:Volda  University  College ( Norwegian: Høgskulen i  Volda or HVO) is a høgskole, a  Norwegian state institution of higher education, in the village of  Volda in Møre og  Romsdal county,  Norway.  It was established on 1  August 1994, when the Møre og  Romsdal regional college and the  Volda  Teachers  College were merged.  The  College has a long tradition in  Volda dating back to a teachers' training college which was first established here in 1895.  The current rector is  Johann  Roppen and it has approximately 3,700 students and 340 employees.

The university college is divided into four faculties: the  Faculty of  Humanities and  Education, the  Faculty of  Fine and  Performing  Arts, the  Faculty of  Social  Sciences and  History, and the  Faculty of  Media and  Journalism.  There are a total of 6  Master's degree programmes, 30 undergraduate study programmes, and about 300 courses offered.

The  College is host of the annual  Documentary  Film  Festival ( Den  Norske  Dokumentarfilmfestivalen), the  Animation  Volda festival  and a lively social environment, centered on " Rokken" ( Rokken.no)).Zeppelin  University ( German:  Zeppelin  Universität, ZU) is a small and highly selective private research university located at  Lake  Constance in  Friedrichshafen,  Germany.  The university was established in 2003.

Zeppelin  University has the legal form of a non-profit, limited liability organization and calls itself "university bridging business, culture and politics".  It is named after  Ferdinand  Graf von  Zeppelin, whose foundation is the main financier of  Zeppelin  University.

The university is accredited nationally by the  Academic  Council of the  Federal  Republic of  Germany ( Wissenschaftsrat).  The undergraduate major courses are accredited by ACQUIN, a  German higher education accreditation agency.

Zeppelin  University has two campuses in  Friedrichshafen.

Since  September 10 2011, ZU has had the right to award doctorate and habilitation degrees.  This comes along with the right to use the title "university".